‭0‬

‭Geometry Dash Editor Guide‬
‭The Geometry Dash editor allows you to create custom levels any way you‬
‭want. A level can be simple or detailed, short or long, easy or difficult, and so‬
‭on. The opportunities are endless. However, to be able to make exactly what‬
‭you want, there are a wide variety of features that are helpful or even‬
‭necessary. Learning everything yourself is a near impossible task given the‬
‭size of the editor as of update 2.2. That is exactly what this guide's purpose is:‬
‭To help you out, whether you are new to the editor or already a veteran. There‬
‭should be something helpful here either way. Use the list below if there is‬
‭anything specific you are looking for.‬

‭1. Basics‬
‭Getting Started‬
‭First, you have to find your way to the editor. On the main menu, click the‬
‭right button, and then click "Create" in the top left. This brings you to the‬
‭screen in figure 1.1, which is your list of custom levels. Note that levels here are‬
‭not public, but rather custom levels saved locally on your account. Public‬
‭levels are accessed through the bottom left button. More on that later. To‬
‭start a new level, do as the text says and click "New" in the bottom right.‬

‭6‬

‭At the top, you can set a level name and an optional description. The button‬
‭in the middle lets you play the level, while the right button is where you share‬
‭the level with others through the servers. To start editing, click the left button.‬
‭This brings you into the editor itself.‬

‭Level Settings‬
‭A good place to start is the main level settings, which are accessed by clicking‬
‭the gear button in the top right corner of the editor. This opens the window‬
‭seen below.‬

‭7‬

‭These settings decide the level's starting state. This means that they define‬
‭what a player sees at the start of their attempt. Many of these settings, such‬
‭as Speed, Game Mode, and colors, can be changed inside the level itself too.‬
‭This allows you to change them further into the level. Going through each‬
‭option in figure 1.4 in turn, we have:‬
‭●‬ ‭Game Type:‬‭This is perhaps the most important option‬‭to decide on, as it‬
‭changes how your level plays completely. It cannot be changed‬
‭throughout the level.‬
‭○‬ ‭Classic is the original way to play Geometry Dash levels, in which the‬
‭camera automatically scrolls to the side. To beat the level, the player has‬
‭to avoid obstacles to make it all the way to the end of the level. This is‬
‭done by clicking to change their vertical position in different ways‬
‭depending on the Game Mode. For example, in the most simple mode,‬
‭Cube, you jump by clicking, while something like Wave moves your icon‬
‭diagonally from holding.‬
‭○‬ ‭Platformer is the newest Game Type, and as the name implies, it lets‬
‭the player move around freely. You can click to move left or right as you‬
‭please, and another input allows jumping. How exactly the inputs work‬
‭depend on the device you are playing on.‬

‭8‬

‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭This sets the starting speed of your level. It can be changed at any‬
‭point in the level. The blue option is the default speed, and the others are‬
‭modifiers of this. Each one is fittingly indicated by a reversed arrow or‬
‭more arrows depending on how much they modify the speed. The‬
‭reversed orange option is the slowest option, which is roughly 25% slower‬
‭than the normal speed. For double, triple, and quadruple arrows, the‬
‭modifier is roughly 25%, 50%, and 75% faster than the normal option.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mode:‬‭This alters the way the icon moves when the‬‭player clicks. It is often‬
‭referred to as Game Mode, and should not be confused with Game Type.‬
‭This can also be changed at any point in the level. The different ones are‬
‭shown in figure 1.6 below. From left to right, we have:‬
‭○‬ ‭Cube is the default Game Mode, which has the player click to jump as‬
‭previously mentioned. Interaction with objects such as Pads and Orbs‬
‭make it a bit more complex, but those are handled later.‬
‭○‬ ‭Ship lets the player fly, and the exact trajectory is dependent on clicks.‬
‭Holding down takes you up very fast, while letting go makes you fly‬
‭downwards. Clicking fast in a consistent pattern makes it possible to fly‬
‭in a straight horizontal line.‬
‭○‬ ‭Ball makes the player's icon circular, and movement makes it roll.‬
‭Clicking switches the gameplay gravity, which means that the icon goes‬
‭from rolling on the ground to rolling on the roof (or vice versa).‬

‭9‬

‭○‬ ‭UFO also makes the player fly, but instead of precise control like Ship,‬
‭clicking makes you boost a certain distance upwards. Holding down is‬
‭not possible.‬
‭○‬ ‭Wave has the player move diagonally by holding or letting go. If you‬
‭hold down, you move diagonally upwards, while letting go makes you‬
‭move diagonally downwards. This is disabled in Platformer.‬
‭○‬ ‭Robot is similar to Cube, but instead of a set jump height, the amount‬
‭you hold down decides the vertical movement. Clicking very fast leads‬
‭to a small jump, while holding down (to a certain limit) takes you‬
‭higher.‬
‭○‬ ‭Spider is similar to Ball, but clicking makes gravity switch instantly‬
‭rather than a slower rolling motion. This is disabled in Platformer.‬
‭○‬ ‭Swing is also based on flying, but each click changes the player's gravity.‬
‭This is disabled in Platformer.‬
‭●‬ ‭Options:‬‭This lets you set various other options.‬‭Most of them, like Flip‬
‭Gravity and Reverse Gameplay, speak for themselves. Mini makes the‬
‭player's icon smaller, altering the effects of clicks to some degree. Dual‬
‭duplicates the icon into two, making it so that the player has to control two‬
‭icons. Every click affects both icons. Enabling 2-Player changes this to‬
‭require clicking on each side of the screen for each icon. Spawn Group lets‬
‭you set a specific target object, given by its Group ID, as the spawn‬
‭position. More on Group IDs later. Clicking the top right gear button opens‬
‭Legacy Options, which fix various older bugs. These should not be‬
‭changed.‬
‭●‬ ‭BG, G, and MG:‬‭This sets the type of Background, Ground,‬‭and‬
‭Middleground art to use from the start. The Ground is on the front layer,‬
‭making it the only one the player interacts with directly at the bottom of‬
‭the level. BG and MG are seen behind the player. The difference between‬

‭10‬

‭these two is their layering, with Background being furthest back. All of‬
‭these three can be‬‭changed‬‭at any point in the level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Font:‬‭There is normally an attempt counter found at‬‭the start of levels, and‬
‭this option changes the font used for this. It also changes any other text‬
‭objects found in the level. You cannot change this further into the level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Select Color:‬‭At the top of the window, you can set‬‭colors for various parts‬
‭of the level. BG, G, and MG set the colors for the art described earlier. (G2‬
‭and MG2 are secondary colors used for details.) Line is an outline for the‬
‭Ground. Clicking "More" lets you change the starting settings for the‬
‭custom Color Channels. These are used for other objects. Note that any‬
‭colors can be changed at any time in a level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Select Song:‬‭This is where you set what song to use.‬‭The various options‬
‭and menus are handled in the next chapter.‬

‭Placing Objects‬
‭Back to the main editor screen, the main part you will interact with is the‬
‭bottom section, seen in figure 1.7. To begin creating, have the "Build" button‬
‭on the left selected (indicated by blue color). This is where all the different‬
‭objects in the game are located. We will write "objects" in lower case to refer‬
‭to objects in general, so any goes. Clicking on an object selects it for use,‬
‭which lets you place it in your level. This is done by clicking at the desired‬
‭position on the grid. While an object is selected, you can enable "Swipe" on‬
‭the right side to place objects over the area you swipe (hold down and drag).‬

‭11‬

‭There are various types of objects, which are grouped into specific tabs based‬
‭on their properties. Each object is only found within one tab. Inside a tab, you‬
‭can also click through several pages using the arrow buttons. Going through‬
‭each tab in order, we have:‬
‭●‬ ‭Blocks:‬‭This tab ranges from simple squares to more‬‭detailed blocks.‬
‭Some have outlines, while others do not. This is visible by the white lines,‬
‭indicating that they are solid, which means they interact with the player‬
‭upon collision. Putting these in front of the player's movement means that‬
‭they have to jump to pass them. Colliding with a line horizontally leads to‬
‭death. However, landing on top of them is fine.‬
‭●‬ ‭Outlines:‬‭Various basic outlines are found here. As‬‭mentioned for the‬
‭previous tab, these interact with the player when touched.‬
‭●‬ ‭Slopes:‬‭These are similar to blocks, but instead of‬‭being square they are‬
‭sloped. There are two types of slopes in the game. One is basically a block‬
‭cut in half diagonally, making a 45 degree angle, while the other makes a‬
‭slope over 2 blocks. Interaction with a sloped outline is safe in most cases.‬

‭●‬ ‭Spikes:‬‭Spikes lead to death on any collision no matter‬‭what.‬
‭●‬ ‭3D:‬‭These can be combined with blocks to make them‬‭look 3D.‬

‭12‬

‭●‬ ‭Gameplay Objects:‬‭Various objects that affect gameplay are found here.‬
‭For example, this is where you find objects that change the Speed and‬
‭Game Mode as mentioned earlier. These are covered more in-depth in‬
‭their own chapter later. Click the title for a direct link to the chapter.‬
‭●‬ ‭Animated Objects:‬‭While most objects are still by‬‭default, the ones found‬
‭in this tab have certain animations built in. These are also covered more‬
‭in-depth in their own chapter later.‬
‭●‬ ‭Pixel Art:‬‭Lots of different art made up of small‬‭pixels are found here. None‬
‭of them interact with the player by default, but you can combine them‬
‭with lines or Spikes for the effect you want.‬
‭●‬ ‭Items:‬‭These objects are used as Collectables that‬‭can be picked up during‬
‭gameplay.‬
‭●‬ ‭Symbols:‬‭Various Symbols, even some art from the game's‬‭menus, are‬
‭found here. None of these are solid.‬

‭●‬ ‭Decorations:‬‭Different types of objects that do not‬‭interact with the player.‬
‭As the name implies, they are meant to be used as decorations to fill space.‬
‭●‬ ‭Pulsing Objects:‬‭These are called Pulsing Objects‬‭because they‬
‭automatically pulse to the beat of the song. Pulsing in this case means‬
‭scaling to a bigger size for more intense audio.‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotating Objects:‬‭Many circular objects that automatically‬‭rotate, such as‬
‭saws but also decorations. Saws are spiky and lead to death upon collision.‬
‭The speed and direction of all these objects can be customized.‬
‭13‬

‭●‬ ‭Triggers:‬‭Triggers are more complex objects that let you do endless‬
‭customization, whether it is something as simple as moving an object to‬
‭something complex like making a bossfight. None of these objects show in‬
‭the level itself when played, but start their set operation when passed on‬
‭the X axis during gameplay. You can also make them Trigger when‬
‭touched by the player. Every Trigger is covered in-depth in its own chapter.‬
‭●‬ ‭Custom Objects:‬‭This tab is empty when you are new‬‭to the editor. It lets‬
‭you save combinations of objects to be reused at any time, even in another‬
‭level. Each one can have maximum 1000 objects, and you can make 250‬
‭custom objects in total. See the dedicated chapter for more details.‬

‭Editing Objects‬
‭After successfully placing objects in the editor, you may want to edit them in‬
‭some way. Figure 1.10 shows an example. Assume you want to move these‬
‭three Spikes (often referred to as a "triple Spike") one block to the right. To do‬
‭this, you have to click the "Edit" button in the bottom left. Afterwards, you can‬
‭click an object to select it for editing. Normally, you can only select one object‬
‭at a time. To select all three at once, enable "Swipe" in the bottom right as‬
‭seen in the example. This lets you swipe over the objects you want to select.‬

‭14‬

‭Now that the objects are selected, indicated by the green outline, we can‬
‭move onto actually editing them. The buttons in the lower section, seen in‬
‭figure 1.11, are all used for this. Most of these are self-explanatory, so testing‬
‭them out yourself is recommended. The various arrows move the selected‬
‭object(s) in their given direction. How much they move is indicated by the‬
‭number of arrows. Other buttons, like the circular arrows, let you rotate the‬
‭object(s) a given amount. The one with "Free" inside it lets you rotate as much‬
‭as you would like.‬

‭Having found the correct button, double arrow to the right, we get the result‬
‭in figure 1.12. Another way to do this is by selecting "Free Move" and "Snap" in‬
‭the bottom right. The former lets you move the selected objects wherever you‬
‭want, even outside of exact grid positions, while "Snap" puts the objects in‬
‭exact grid positions. Together, this combination gives us the result we‬
‭wanted, but you can also use "Free Move" on its own to move off-grid.‬

‭15‬

‭If you are satisfied with your edits, click the "Deselect" button on the far right.‬
‭You can also deselect the objects by placing new objects. After this, you can‬
‭go ahead and place or edit other objects. Additionally, you may see another‬
‭"Rotate" button in the bottom right that has not been covered yet. This has‬
‭the same functionality as the previously mentioned "Free" rotation button but‬
‭is easier to access.‬

‭Scaling & Warping‬
‭The last three buttons in the "Edit" tab, as the names imply, let you scale or‬
‭warp the object. This means to change its form and/or size in some way. In‬
‭essence, each of these buttons can do the same thing, but with even more‬
‭control sequentially. The first "Scale" only lets you scale the objects in place,‬
‭which means they keep their original aspect ratio. With the second one, you‬
‭can scale for the X and Y axis as you wish, allowing for even more control.‬

‭With "Warp", you get the most control. Selecting it opens the interface seen in‬
‭figure 1.13, which features various buttons. Each of the square buttons let you‬
‭scale as with the previous two buttons. You use them by holding one down‬
‭and dragging to your desired scale. If you want the scaling to be in place, you‬
‭can toggle the lock in the top right. As for the circular buttons, the middle one‬
‭16‬

‭is used as an anchor point for rotation, while the outer one performs the‬
‭actual rotation. Finally, we have the two rectangular buttons outside the‬
‭square ones. These let you skew the objects in a given direction. As an‬
‭example, dragging the top one to the left results in the example below. The‬
‭anchor point also affects how much you can skew.‬

‭Select Color‬
‭After having warped the Spikes successfully, you may want to change their‬
‭color a bit. Assume you want to make the outline of the left Spike red. This is‬
‭done by selecting the object and clicking "Edit Object" on the far right, which‬
‭opens the menu seen below.‬

‭17‬

‭In here, you have various options for coloring the object. Selecting "P-Col 1" or‬
‭"P-Col 2" makes the color based on the player's colors. "Light BG" makes it a‬
‭lighter shade of the Background Color, while "Default" simply sets it to its‬
‭default. For Spikes, this is white, but it varies from object to object. Below this,‬
‭you can select custom Color Channels that can be specified freely. These are‬
‭numbered from 1 to 999. "Next Free" finds the next unused Color Channel,‬
‭which is 1 in our case. To begin customizing it, click on top of the colored‬
‭square in the bottom right. This opens the following menu:‬

‭Here, you have various options to set the color of the object. Selecting the‬
‭color by using the outer wheel and then its shade by using the inner circle is‬
‭the easiest way. You can also specify a color exactly by its "RGB" or "HEX"‬
‭values in the bottom right, while "Opacity" changes how transparent the color‬
‭is. "Copy" and "Paste" in the top right are used if you want to copy and paste‬
‭colors across channels, while "Default" sets it back to the standard white.‬

‭18‬

‭On the left, "Copy Color" lets you input another Color Channel to copy from‬
‭but with potential changes to HSV. HSV is also seen in figure 1.15 as a "HSV"‬
‭button. This allows you to change hue, saturation, and brightness of the color‬
‭for the selected object (and not the channel as a whole). By default, the color‬
‭is solid, but enabling Blending makes it blend with the visuals behind it.‬
‭"Player Color 1" and "Player Color " are, as explained earlier, based on the‬
‭player's choice of colors.‬

‭With the object's color set to red, it is successfully colored as seen above. The‬
‭defined Color Channel can also be given to other objects you wish to have the‬
‭same color. It is worth noting that the Color Channel's settings can be‬
‭changed throughout the level using a‬‭Color Trigger‬‭.‬‭Changing it inside the‬
‭menu in figure 1.15 only sets the starting values for the channel. Additionally,‬
‭note that some objects have two different parts that can be colored. This is‬
‭indicated by a "Detail" button next to "Base" in the top left of the color menu,‬
‭allowing you to switch between the settings of each. In our example, the‬
‭Spike only has one customizable color, which is the outline, so only "Base" is‬
‭shown. This is called the Base Color, while some objects also have Detail Color.‬

‭19‬

‭Deleting Objects‬
‭If you place the wrong object, you may want to delete it from the level‬
‭entirely. This is done in the bottom tab called "Delete", which is shown in‬
‭figure 1.18. Just having this tab opened allows you to click any object to delete‬
‭it. As with building and editing, you can select "Swipe" on the right to drag‬
‭over multiple objects you want to delete. However, there are numerous other‬
‭options inside the tab as seen below.‬

‭The four buttons on the right are filters for deleting. These are useful if you‬
‭have many different types of objects overlapping, and you only wish to delete‬
‭certain types of them. If you have "None" selected, which is the default, any‬
‭objects can be deleted. Switching to "Static" means that only solid blocks can‬
‭be deleted. As for "Details", this covers a lot of different types of objects, such‬
‭as Portals, decorations, Triggers, and more.‬

‭20‬

‭If you enter this tab while having an object selected (from the "Edit" tab), you‬
‭get some more options. Switching to "Custom" on the right makes it so that‬
‭only the selected object can be deleted. After enabling this, you can head‬
‭back to "Edit" and swipe to select an area of objects you want to delete from.‬
‭Afterwards, head back to "Delete" and click the top left deletion button‬
‭(indicated by a trash can), either within the tab or in the top left of the editor.‬
‭Both of these do the same action, but the latter is easier to access at any time.‬
‭There is also the "All" button on the left which deletes every instance of this‬
‭object in your level. Next to this is a button to delete all‬‭Start Pos Triggers‬‭.‬

‭Finally, we have the four middle buttons marked in the figure above. Opening‬
‭each one gives a good idea of what they do, but they are covered shortly here.‬
‭The top left one lets you find a specific object given by when it was placed.‬
‭Looking up object 23, for example, will take you to the 23rd object if it still‬
‭exists and is not deleted. The two buttons to the right are Group ID and color‬
‭filters respectively. Applying Group IDs are covered more later, but essentially‬
‭an object may have a Group ID for Triggers to interact with it. As an example,‬
‭writing "1" in either means that you can only delete objects with Group ID or‬
‭Color Channel 1 while in the "Delete" tab. This is useful if you wish to delete‬
‭only objects using that specific color among many others. The bottom left‬
‭trash can button is a quick way of resetting all of these filters without having‬
‭to go into their window. You can also use these filters to select objects by‬
‭enabling "Select Filter" in‬‭Options‬‭.‬

‭21‬

‭Other Buttons‬
‭There are still many buttons in the user interface that we have not touched on‬
‭yet, which are summarized here. Some of them are covered more in-depth‬
‭later on when appropriate. We will be using figure 1.21 to cover specific‬
‭buttons, referencing them by colored boxes that have been drawn on top (not‬
‭from the game).‬

‭In the top left, marked in purple, are buttons to undo and redo the recent‬
‭action. As an example, you can use this to recovered a wrongly deleted object.‬
‭However, note that not all actions can be undone or redone, such as applying‬
‭Color Channels or Group IDs. Below these two buttons, we have playtesting‬
‭buttons marked in yellow. The top one playtests the music of the level,‬
‭showing a line moving to help sync visuals to the song. The lower one lets you‬
‭playtest your level inside the editor, starting from the start or a set start‬
‭position.‬

‭22‬

‭In the white box are buttons for zooming in and out inside the editor, letting‬
‭you see details more clearly or whole areas at once. Right next to these are‬
‭some optional buttons that are enabled from‬‭Options‬‭referred to as Link‬
‭Controls. Clicking the top one links several selected objects together, making‬
‭them act as a single object (for editing or deleting). The bottom one, on the‬
‭other hand, unlinks linked objects.‬
‭At the top, marked in black, is a slider that simply lets you slide through your‬
‭level horizontally inside the editor. You can also move around by simply‬
‭swiping in a given direction. To the right of this slider, in the top right, we have‬
‭the start level settings covered earlier, as well as the‬‭Pause Menu‬‭shown‬
‭below. This opens up many other options covered later. However, for now, we‬
‭note the middle buttons since these are most important as a beginner.‬
‭"Resume" goes back into the editor, while "Save and Play" saves the level and‬
‭starts an attempt on it. This lets you see exactly how the level will play for‬
‭other users once uploaded, unlike playtesting in the editor. "Save and Exit",‬
‭"Save", and "Exit" are self-explanatory.‬

‭23‬

‭Back to figure 1.21, we have the numerous buttons inside the red and blue‬
‭boxes on the right. These are shown together in an edited image below for‬
‭easier access. Many of these are self-explanatory, while others are not.‬

‭"Copy", "Paste" and "Copy+Paste" all do similar actions, which is making a new‬
‭copy of the selected object(s). The button that has both in one will copy the‬
‭selected object(s) and place the copy on top of the old one. If you wish to copy‬
‭something from one spot in the editor to somewhere far away, the separate‬
‭buttons are useful. Simply use "Copy" on what you want to copy, move to‬
‭where you want to paste, and click "Paste". This also works across levels if you‬
‭want to copy something into another level you are working on.‬
‭"Copy Values" copies Group IDs and Color Channels, allowing you to paste‬
‭them onto other objects. "Paste State" does both, while "Paste Color" only‬
‭pastes the color information. "Edit Special", "Edit Group" and "Edit Object" are‬
‭all for editing objects, but they work in different ways.‬‭Edit Special‬‭and‬‭Edit‬
‭Group‬‭have a lot of functionality, and are covered‬‭in later chapters found by‬
‭the links, while‬‭Edit Object‬‭was covered earlier for‬‭a Spike. For many objects,‬
‭this simply lets you change the object's color as shown there. However, for‬
‭some objects, such as‬‭Triggers‬‭, it lets you change‬‭their settings.‬

‭24‬

‭The button with three colored circles give you quick access to editing a Color‬
‭Channel, opening a menu that can be used while editing objects. Clicking it‬
‭another time switches to a HSV menu. As mentioned earlier, "Deselect" is‬
‭simply used to deselect selected objects.‬
‭Finally, we have "Go To Layer", which is closely tied to the arrows and number‬
‭below it. The pink arrows allow you to switch between different layers to build‬
‭on, making it easier to organize more complex constructions. You can only‬
‭access objects on a specific layer for editing or deletion if you are on it.‬
‭However, you can also toggle editing or deleting a layer by clicking on top of‬
‭the number, which locks the layer's objects from being changed. Click it‬
‭again to unlock it. As for the blue arrow on the left, this simply returns you to‬
‭the "All" layer, which shows every layer together. While in here, you can select‬
‭an object and click "Go To Layer" to go its specific layer quickly.‬

‭25‬

‭2. Picking Song‬
‭Starting Song‬
‭The majority of the community's favorite Geometry Dash levels are largely‬
‭due to their great music synchronization, so picking a song is obviously‬
‭important when creating. To pick one, we head back to the level settings:‬

‭The bottom of this image is where the starting song of a level is set. By‬
‭default, it shows "Normal" songs, which are the official main level songs‬
‭("Stereo Madness", "Back On Track", and so on). If you want to make a level‬
‭with one of these songs, use the arrows to go through and stop on the one‬
‭you want.‬
‭Selecting "Custom" instead, we have hundreds of thousands of songs to pick‬
‭from. Click "Select Custom Song" to open the menu seen in figure 2.2 below.‬
‭This has various buttons that serve different purposes. For now, we focus on‬
‭the two circular buttons in the middle, one called "Music Library" and the‬
‭other being the logo of‬‭Newgrounds‬‭. This is a website‬‭for various user-created‬
‭content, such as music.‬

‭26‬

‭Music Library‬
‭The Music Library is a new addition in update 2.2, which has many songs‬
‭handpicked by RobTop for use by the community in levels. Once clicked, the‬
‭interface below is seen. By default, every song is shown in alphabetical order‬
‭by their title, which is a lot to scroll through given the song count. (As of‬
‭writing, it is 6391, seen at the bottom of the menu.) To sort through the library,‬
‭use the buttons on the sides. On the right side, the first button lets you filter‬
‭by specific genres, while the second lets you filter by specific artists. As for the‬
‭left side, there is a search button that lets you search for title keywords.‬

‭27‬

‭The figure shows both downloaded and non-downloaded songs. You have to‬
‭download them to be able to listen to or use them. Once a song is‬
‭downloaded, click the playtest button to listen to it. Once you have found a‬
‭song you wish to use from the start of your level, simply download it and click‬
‭the pink "Use" button. Exiting the Music Library, the selection is now filled in:‬

‭Newgrounds‬
‭Before 2.2, the main way to select a custom song was through Newgrounds.‬
‭Clicking its button gives more details on how it works, but you basically have‬
‭to search a song by its specific ID. The ID is found at the end of its link on the‬
‭website. For example, imagine that I am a fan of Creo and want to use his‬
‭song‬‭"Dimension"‬‭. Click the link to open the following‬‭page:‬

‭28‬

‭Here, you can listen to the song and easily skip around to hear different parts‬
‭of the song. Browse the "Audio" tab to find other songs to use. Once you have‬
‭found a song you want to use, you have to write its ID into Geometry Dash. As‬
‭seen in the top left of the previous example, the link for "Dimension" by Creo‬
‭ends with "709578". Typing this and clicking "Search" finds the song as seen‬
‭below. Note that not all songs are available in Geometry Dash. This is‬
‭something the artist can toggle themselves. The best way to find out is by‬
‭testing its ID, which will give an error if it is not available for use in the game.‬

‭Make sure you click the download button and then "Use" on this screen too.‬
‭After downloading any songs, whether it is through the Music Library or‬
‭Newgrounds, you can find them all through the "Saved" button in the bottom‬
‭right. This is also the case for any songs you download while playing custom‬
‭levels on the servers. In here, you can easily select a previously downloaded‬
‭song for use too.‬

‭29‬

‭Song Settings‬
‭When picking a song, you may not want to use it from the start but rather‬
‭from a set point further into the song. Clicking the gear in the top right of the‬
‭custom song selection menu lets you do this. "Start Offset" is given in‬
‭seconds, allowing up to 3 decimals, with a playtest button to help you make it‬
‭as exact as possible. The fade options makes the song fade in at the start or‬
‭out at the end. Note that these can be used even with a main level song.‬

‭Guideline Creator‬
‭To help you sync the gameplay and visuals of your level to your song of choice,‬
‭you can click "Create Lines" in the bottom left. This opens the menu seen‬
‭below. The text itself gives good steps for how to do it, which is essentially‬
‭clicking "Record" and then clicking to the song. You can, for example, time‬
‭each click to the main beat. After you are done, click "Stop" and vertical lines‬
‭will be shown in the editor to indicate when you clicked. As a result, you can‬
‭time specific gameplay or visuals to these lines, for example to‬‭Pulse Triggers‬
‭(where a specific color, such as the Background, turns brighter for a split‬
‭second). Note that you can toggle the guidelines in the‬‭Pause Menu‬‭.‬

‭30‬

‭Later Customization‬
‭The settings covered thus far are all for the starting song. However, the editor‬
‭lets you change the song further into the level, as well as customizing the‬
‭current song in many ways. You can, for example, change the speed or edit‬
‭the volume based on proximity (to the player). Additionally, up to 5 songs can‬
‭be overlapped at once, giving a lot of possibilities. These customizations are‬
‭done using the‬‭Song‬‭and‬‭Edit Song Triggers‬‭at the‬‭point you want them to‬
‭take effect. Further audio customization is possible using‬‭SFX Triggers‬
‭handled in the same chapter.‬

‭With the possible complexity of your level's audio using these Triggers, the‬
‭Guideline Creator shown above is not as helpful anymore. To handle such‬
‭cases, you can use BPM Finder within each song's details. Click "More" next to‬
‭a song and then "BPM" to open its menu. The way it works is similar to the‬
‭Guideline Creator, but it only finds the BPM for you and does not draw‬
‭guidelines automatically. Afterwards, you can use a‬‭BPM Guide Trigger‬
‭together with the song's placement in the editor to create guidelines.‬

‭31‬

‭3. Gameplay Objects‬
‭Description‬
‭This chapter handles the sixth tab in the editor, referred to as Gameplay‬
‭Objects because they affect gameplay or interact with the player in a different‬
‭way than other objects. These range from giving small boosts through‬‭Pads‬
‭or‬‭Orbs‬‭to customizing the starting settings further‬‭into the level, such as‬
‭Game Mode and Speed. The first page is seen below. Many of these only work‬
‭the first time they are interacted with, but you can enable "Multi Activate" in‬
‭Edit Special‬‭or‬‭Edit Object‬‭to allow multiple interactions.‬‭This is useful if your‬
‭gameplay switches direction, making the player pass by a Gameplay Object‬
‭several times.‬

‭Pads‬
‭The first 5 objects in the tab are often referred to as Pads. When a player‬
‭touches one of these, they are affected in some way depending on the type of‬
‭Pad. The first three give various vertical boosts, while the last two switch‬
‭gravity in different ways. For the blue one, the gravity switch is natural,‬
‭keeping horizontal velocity, while the purple one teleports you vertically until‬
‭an object is hit. This is similar to how Spider works. An illustration of the‬
‭various Pads, with the player path in green, is shown below. To refer to a‬
‭specific one, you simply use the color, so the leftmost one is called Yellow Pad.‬

‭32‬

‭Orbs‬
‭Orbs work similarly to Pads, but instead of being activated upon being‬
‭touched, they have to be clicked by the player. The ones with the same color‬
‭as in figure 3.2 have a similar effect, as seen in figure 3.3. However, there are‬
‭five extra Orbs that do not have an equivalent in Pads. These are seen in figure‬
‭3.4 with their common names in the figure text. The Black Orb simply pushes‬
‭you downwards (without switching gravity), while the Dash Orbs take you in a‬
‭straight line in the arrow's direction as long as the player holds down. Once‬
‭released, the Green Dash Orb keeps the original gravity, while the Pink Dash‬
‭Orb switches it. The Teleport Orb lets you set a specific object to teleport to‬
‭when clicked. Finally, the Trigger Orb lets you toggle a specific Group ID.‬

‭33‬

‭Portals‬
‭Portals change the gameplay in various ways. Their effect is only activated if‬
‭the player passes through them. First, we have the Game Mode Portals. These‬
‭are seen in figure 3.5 below, ordered in the same way as in the start settings:‬
‭Green is Cube, pink is Ship, red is Ball, orange is UFO, blue is Wave, gray is‬
‭Robot, purple is Spider, and yellow is Swing. Use these at any point in your‬
‭level to switch the player's Game Mode. Some Game Modes, such as Ship,‬
‭have a floor and roof by default. Click "Edit Object" and enable "Free Mode" to‬
‭remove these.‬

‭34‬

‭In figure 3.6, various other types of Portals are shown. First, on the left, are‬
‭Gravity Portals. The blue one changes gravity to be normal (down), while the‬
‭yellow changes it to be upside-down. As for the green one, it switches to the‬
‭opposite gravity depending on your current gravity. If you are upside-down‬
‭and go through it, gravity turns normal, and vice versa. This is useful if a part's‬
‭gravity is dependent on the player's actions and you want to force a gravity‬
‭switch. After all, if you are in normal gravity and pass through a Blue Gravity‬
‭Portal, it has no effect since that is already the player's gravity.‬

‭Secondly, we have Mirror Portals, which essentially mirror the entire level.‬
‭Once activated, this means that instead of going towards the right, the level‬
‭goes towards the left. The Orange Mirror Portal switches to the left, while the‬
‭Blue Mirror Portal switches to the right (which is default).‬
‭Third are Size Portals. The pink one makes the player's icon smaller in the‬
‭current Game Mode, often referred to as Mini Mode. This changes the‬
‭gameplay in some ways depending on the Game Mode, such as jumps being‬
‭lower and shorter in Cube and Robot. If the Game Mode changes, Mini Mode‬
‭is still kept until the size is changed back to normal. That is done with the‬
‭Green Size Portal.‬

‭35‬

‭Finally, on the far right, we have Dual Portals. The orange one enables Dual‬
‭Mode, which duplicates the player's icon into two. Both of these are controlled‬
‭upon clicking. By default, every click affects both. However, you can enable‬
‭2-Player Mode in the level settings, making it so that clicks on each side of the‬
‭screen control each icon. To switch back to one icon, use the Blue Dual Portal.‬

‭Speed Changers‬
‭Speed Changers are pretty self-explanatory, but if you want more details,‬
‭check‬‭Level Settings‬‭. As with Portals, they are enabled‬‭when a player interacts‬
‭with them. The blue lines around them (not seen in-game, only in the editor)‬
‭indicate their hitbox. This is where you have to touch them to change the‬
‭speed. Naturally, if the Speed is already normal, for example, going through a‬
‭Blue Speed Changer (one arrow to the right) does nothing.‬

‭Letter Objects‬
‭At the end of the tab, there are various letters inside white squares. These are‬
‭only visible in the editor itself (and not in-game). They are used in very specific‬
‭use cases to alter player interactions in some way. In order from first to last,‬
‭we have Letter Objects with "D", "J", "S", "H", and "F" written on them, which‬
‭are covered in order here.‬

‭36‬

‭First is "D", which is used when the Game Mode is Wave. As seen in figure 3.8‬
‭on the left, the player will normally die when the icon hits a block below it‬
‭(and similar above it). However, adding D Letter Objects allows the icon to hit‬
‭the blocks. The placement of these objects decide which blocks are safe.‬

‭The J Letter Object is used to stop jumps when the player holds down in‬
‭Cube. Many players hold down a little after using an Orb, such as a Blue Orb,‬
‭and after hitting objects this may lead to an unwanted jump. This is seen on‬
‭the left in figure 3.9. Adding the J Letter Objects here, holding down from the‬
‭Blue Orb does not result in a jump. Note that clicking again while on top of‬
‭these Letter Objects does lead to a jump. This only affects holding.‬

‭37‬

‭By default, using a Dash Orb lets you hold it down as long as you want. The‬
‭player decides when its action ends by releasing. However, at times it may be‬
‭wanted to control when a Dash Orb's effect stops. This is done by placing S‬
‭Letter Objects as seen in figure 3.10. The player can still release before this if‬
‭they wish, but they cannot use the Dash Orb for longer than the S Letter‬
‭Object's placement.‬

‭In Cube, jumping into a block above you and "hitting your head" normally‬
‭leads to death. Using H Letter Objects stops this. This works the same way if‬
‭the gravity is switched, and it also applies for Robot. Last are F Letter Objects,‬
‭which switch gravity when you hit your head on them. An example of this is‬
‭seen here:‬

‭38‬

‭Force Objects‬
‭Last in the tab are Force Objects, seen as an arrow inside a circle or square.‬
‭These apply a set force in the direction of the arrow when touched. This‬
‭means that you can rotate them in the direction you want them to work. The‬
‭difference between the two lies in the hitbox, which is indicated by the circle‬
‭and square. Similar to letter objects, these do not show in the level itself, so it‬
‭is probably smart to find some way to indicate them with decorations. This‬
‭makes it less annoying for the player. Use "Edit Object" to change various‬
‭settings, such as the force applied.‬

‭39‬

‭4. Animated Objects‬
‭Description‬
‭Animated Objects are in the seventh tab. Each object here consists of several‬
‭frames, which the game cycles through and loops forever to create‬
‭animations. The most complex Animated Objects are particles, which can be‬
‭customized in the‬‭Particle Editor‬‭. Many‬‭Collectable‬‭Objects‬‭are animated as‬
‭well and have similar settings. The first page of the tab is seen here:‬

‭Monsters‬
‭As seen above, the first 5 objects in the tab are various Monsters. Once placed,‬
‭these do different default animations. However, they can be customized using‬
‭the‬‭Animate Trigger‬‭covered later. To use the‬‭Animate‬‭Trigger‬‭on a Monster,‬
‭you have to assign it a Group ID. Select the Monster you want to change the‬
‭animation of and click the "Edit Group" button found on the right. In this‬
‭menu, enter a value in the "Add Group ID" field. "Next Free" is helpful to find‬
‭an unused Group ID. To assign that value, click the "Add" button, as seen in‬
‭figure 4.2. You can use the same Group ID for different kinds of Monsters.‬
‭However, their animation cycles may not align with each other, resulting in‬
‭unwanted results. Because of this it is recommended to use a different Group‬
‭ID for every kind of monster. You can find more information about‬‭Groups‬
‭and‬‭Triggers‬‭in the later chapters.‬

‭40‬

‭.‬

‭Edit Special‬
‭The objects beyond the Monsters do not let you change to another animation‬
‭specifically, but you can use "Edit Special" to customize its default animation‬
‭in some ways. To do so, select the objects you want to edit and click the "Edit‬
‭Special" button found to the right. The menu will look like this:‬

‭41‬

‭All options change different attributes of the animation cycle. Here is a list of‬
‭all options and what they do:‬
‭●‬ ‭Randomized Start:‬‭By default all Animated Objects‬‭start on their first‬

‭frame. With this option enabled, the first frame is random, and the‬
‭animation will continue normally from that point.‬
‭●‬ ‭Use Speed:‬‭Uses a custom speed for the animation,‬‭which gets configured‬

‭with the slider below. A speed below 1.00 is slower than default, while a‬
‭speed above 1.00 is faster. You can input negative values to reverse the‬
‭animation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Animate on Trigger:‬‭The objects freeze on the first‬‭frame. They begin their‬

‭animation when an‬‭Animate‬‭or‬‭Spawn Trigger‬‭Triggers‬‭them.‬
‭●‬ ‭Disable Delayed Loop:‬‭Some objects get delayed before‬‭looping. This‬

‭option instantly starts the next loop.‬
‭●‬ ‭Disable AnimShine:‬‭Some Animated Objects have a white‬‭flash at the‬

‭start of their animation, which gets deactivated with this option.‬
‭●‬ ‭Only if active:‬‭Addition to the "Animate on Trigger"‬‭option. With this‬

‭option, the "Animate on Trigger" option will only play if the object is active.‬
‭If the animation is not active while an‬‭Animate‬‭or‬‭Spawn Trigger‬‭Triggers‬
‭it, the animation will instead begin once the object is active again.‬
‭●‬ ‭Single Frame:‬‭The animation will not play and instead‬‭only display a single‬

‭frame of the animation, which gets chosen with the number field below.‬

‭42‬

‭Particle Editor‬
‭The Particle Editor allows you to create your own set of particles. To get‬
‭started, you first have to place its object. It is the first object in the tab, seen as‬
‭a white "P" and shown in figure 4.4.‬

‭While having this object placed and select, you can access the Particle Editor‬
‭by clicking the "Edit Special" button on the right. This opens the menu in‬
‭figure 4.5. In here, you can configure different attributes of your particles, such‬
‭as their movement, color, texture, and more.‬

‭In the following sections we will go through all the tabs and explain what‬
‭every option does. You can copy and paste configurations from different‬
‭particles by using the "C" and "P" buttons at the top.‬
‭43‬

‭First, we have the "Motion" tab, which configures the particles' movement.‬
‭You can edit the motion of your particles in "Gravity" or "Radius" mode.‬
‭Depending on what mode you choose, you will have different options‬
‭available.‬

‭●‬ ‭Max Particles:‬‭The amount of particles that can be‬‭visible at once.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long particles will be generated. "-1.00"‬‭means they will‬

‭spawn forever, which you can input by clicking the "Inf." button to the‬
‭right.‬
‭●‬ ‭Lifetime:‬‭How long particles are visible before they‬‭disappear.‬
‭●‬ ‭Emission:‬‭At what rate particles spawn. You can click‬‭the "Max" button for‬

‭the highest possible rate or click the "Calc" button to use the "Max‬
‭Particles" and "Lifetime" values to generate them at an even rate.‬
‭●‬ ‭Angle:‬‭The angle at which the particles will go. A‬‭value of "0" means right,‬

‭" 90" down, "180" left, and so on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭The speed at which the particles go from the‬‭center.‬

‭44‬

‭●‬ ‭PosVar:‬‭Position variables indicate the space in which the particles can‬

‭spawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭Gravity:‬‭This applies a gravity force to the particles.‬‭The higher the value,‬

‭the stronger the force. Positive values make the gravity go right and up,‬
‭while negative values make the gravity go left and down, depending on‬
‭what slider you choose.‬
‭●‬ ‭AccelRad:‬‭Refers to the radial acceleration of the‬‭particles.‬
‭●‬ ‭AccelTan:‬‭Refers to the tangential acceleration of‬‭the particles.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartRad:‬‭This option is only available in "Radius"‬‭mode. It sets the start‬

‭radius of the particles.‬
‭●‬ ‭EndRad:‬‭This option is only available in the "Radius"‬‭mode. It sets the end‬

‭radius of the particles.‬
‭●‬ ‭RotSec:‬‭This option is only available in the "Radius"‬‭mode. It refers to‬

‭rotations per second.‬
‭Next is the "Visual" tab, which lets you change how the particles look. The‬
‭start and end colors are customized in the top left.‬

‭45‬

‭●‬ ‭StartSize:‬‭The size the particles have when they spawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭EndSize:‬‭The size the particles have when they despawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartSpin:‬‭The rotation the particles when they spawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭EndSpin:‬‭The rotation the particles when they despawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start R/G/B:‬‭Percentage of red, green, and blue values‬‭when the particles‬

‭spawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start A:‬‭Opacity when the particles spawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭End R/G/B:‬‭Percentage of red, green, and blue values‬‭when the particles‬

‭despawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭End A:‬‭Opacity when the particles despawn.‬

‭In the "Extra" tab, seen below, various other configuration can be done.‬

‭46‬

‭●‬ ‭Free:‬‭With this option enabled, you do not move the particles but pan the‬
‭camera around.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative:‬‭With this option, particles do not move‬‭when you move the‬

‭object but spawn at the new position.‬
‭●‬ ‭Grouped:‬‭With this option, all particles move when‬‭you move the object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Fade in/out:‬‭Fade time for the particles to appear‬‭and disappear.‬
‭●‬ ‭FrictionP:‬‭Adds friction to the particles.‬
‭●‬ ‭FrictionS:‬‭Adds friction to the particle speed.‬
‭●‬ ‭FrictionR:‬‭Adds friction to the particle rotation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Respawn:‬‭Modifies the rate at which particles respawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭Additive:‬‭This is comparable to the blending option‬‭for Color Channels.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start Size = End:‬‭The particles have the same size‬‭at the end as the start.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start Spin = End:‬‭The particles have the same rotation‬‭at the end as the‬

‭start.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start Rad = End:‬‭Changes the "StartRad" value to be‬‭the end instead of‬

‭the start. This option only works in "Radius" mode.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start rot is dir:‬‭The rotation of the particles when‬‭they spawn is the‬

‭direction they will go towards.‬
‭●‬ ‭Use obj color:‬‭Particles use Color Channels instead‬‭of the color specified in‬

‭the visual tab.‬
‭●‬ ‭Uniform obj color:‬‭Makes the beginning and ending‬‭colors the same.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dynamic rotation:‬‭The particles rotate to face towards‬‭the direction they‬

‭are going.‬
‭●‬ ‭Animate on Trigger:‬‭The objects freeze on the first‬‭frame. They begin their‬

‭animation when an‬‭Animate Trigger‬‭Triggers them.‬
‭●‬ ‭Animate Active Only:‬‭Addition to the "Animate on Trigger"‬‭option. With‬

‭this option, the "Animate on Trigger" option will only play if the object is‬
‭active. If the animation is not active while the‬‭Animate‬‭Trigger‬‭is activated,‬
‭the animation will instead begin once the object is active again.‬

‭47‬

‭●‬ ‭Order Sensitive:‬‭Checks for the "Order" value specified in‬‭Edit Group‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartRGB Var Sync:‬‭Syncs the "Start R/G/B" values‬‭from the "Visual" tab.‬
‭●‬ ‭EndRGB Var Sync:‬‭Syncs the "End R/G/B" values from‬‭the "Visual" tab.‬
‭●‬ ‭Quick Start:‬‭By default, the particles will start‬‭slowly before reaching their‬

‭normal movement. With this option, normal movement is achieved‬
‭instantly.‬
‭In the "Texture" tab, the actual texture of your particle is chosen. Note that for‬
‭textures with a Base Color other than white, such as the Difficulty Faces, the‬
‭particle color has to be white. Choosing a color other than white will tint the‬
‭colors, which may lead to unwanted results. Based on prior settings, the‬
‭particles may even disappear if you choose black for the particle color.‬

‭48‬

‭The Particle Editor preview is on the left half of the settings menu. In this‬
‭editor, you can configure motion options by dragging lines around and‬
‭positioning the particles at different locations. The default version of the‬
‭editor looks like figure 4.10, but it will automatically update the motion, color,‬
‭and texture depending on prior configurations.‬

‭All buttons allow you to modify different parts of the motion. Choose the‬
‭mode by clicking on the corresponding button. If no button is enabled, you‬
‭can move the particles inside the editor. Their movement depends on the‬
‭"Free", "Relative", and "Grouped" options from the "Extra" tab.‬
‭The first button, "1",‬‭edits the "PosVar" values in‬‭"Gravity" mode, and the‬
‭"StartRad" value in "Radius" mode. You can change them by clicking on the‬
‭green line and moving it around to scale it, as seen in figure 4.11. If you click on‬
‭an edge, you can change the size on the corresponding axis. If you click on a‬
‭corner, the size will change relative to the corner position in the square.‬
‭49‬

‭The second button, "2", edits the "Gravity" values in "Gravity" mode, and the‬
‭"EndRad" value in "Radius" mode. You can change them by clicking‬
‭somewhere in the editor and moving around. The blue line will draw from the‬
‭center to the position you are at, with a longer line indicating a stronger‬
‭gravity in the corresponding direction, as seen in figure 4.11.‬
‭The third button, "3", edits the "Angle" value in both modes, as well as the‬
‭"Speed" value in "Gravity" mode. You can change them by clicking‬
‭somewhere in the editor and moving around. The angle will change to the‬
‭angle between the center and your click, and the speed will adjust depending‬
‭on how far the mouse is from the center. The angle is indicated by the‬
‭rounder yellow line, while the speed is indicated by the straight yellow line, as‬
‭seen in figure 4.11.‬
‭The "C" button recenters the particles if you moved them around, and the last,‬
‭colored button changes the background color of the editor.‬

‭50‬

‭5. Items‬
‭Description‬
‭Items are found in the tenth tab of the editor, and consist of various objects‬
‭that are suitable as Collectables. This means that they can be picked up‬
‭throughout the level, whether they are optional extra challenges or necessary‬
‭to advance. You can also use many of these as decorations if you wish. The‬
‭first page of the tab is seen here:‬

‭User Coins‬
‭The first object in the tab are User Coins. These are the most used‬
‭Collectables in the game because they are official. This means that they show‬
‭on a level's menu screen and may count towards player statistics. You can‬
‭place up to three of these in your level, but note that you do not need to put‬
‭any. They are supposed to offer an extra, optional challenge for the player,‬
‭meaning that they should not be a part of the level's normal route and free to‬
‭get when beating the level. Once you upload your level, they will initially show‬
‭as bronze both inside the level and on its menu screen. However, if your level‬
‭gets rated, RobTop can "verify" the coins, making them silver and count for‬
‭statistics. This means that players get more User Coins on their Profile if they‬
‭collect yours and beat the level. Note that he may not verify them if your User‬
‭Coins are free. Similar to Animated Objects, you can use‬‭Edit Special‬‭to edit‬
‭their default rotating animation.‬
‭51‬

‭Custom Collectables‬
‭All other objects in the tab function as custom Collectables. You can assign‬
‭specific actions to them that will be activated once they get collected. This‬
‭can be editing a specific Item ID, activating or deactivating a specific Group‬
‭ID, or assigning Points that add up for the player. To access these options, first‬
‭place the Collectable you want to use and click "Edit Special". This opens the‬
‭following menu:‬

‭You can use "Pickup Item" to change the value of an Item ID. Item IDs are‬
‭variables that can be edited and referenced throughout the level. Enter the‬
‭Item ID you want to change in the "ItemID" field. By default, the Item ID will‬
‭be increased by one. By enabling the "Sub Count" option, it will be decreased‬
‭by one instead. You can read the‬‭Pickup Trigger‬‭section,‬‭as well as the various‬
‭Item Triggers‬‭, for more information on Item IDs.‬

‭52‬

‭Use "Toggle Trigger" if you want the Collectable to behave like a‬‭Toggle‬‭or‬
‭Spawn Trigger‬‭. By default, the Group ID will be toggled off. If you click the‬
‭"Enable Group" option, the Group ID you input in the "Group ID" field will‬
‭toggle on instead. If the Group ID is assigned to a‬‭Trigger‬‭, the Trigger will be‬
‭activated like a Spawn Trigger instead. You can read the‬‭Using Groups‬‭section‬
‭for an explanation of what Group IDs are and how to use them.‬

‭The "Particle" option allows you to spawn particles when the custom‬
‭Collectables are collected. Assign a Group ID to your set of particles and enter‬
‭that Group ID in the "Particle" field. Note that your particles cannot have an‬
‭infinite duration for this to work. You can check the‬‭Particle Editor‬‭subchapter‬
‭for more information about particles and how to use them.‬
‭Lastly, you can assign Points to the Collectables. Points function similarly to‬
‭Item IDs. However, they count as a single variable and are used for the Level‬
‭Leaderboard for Platformer levels. The number you input in the "Points" field‬
‭is how many Points the custom Collectables will award when collected.‬

‭53‬

‭6. Edit Group‬
‭"Edit Group" is one of the most important buttons in the game. It is found on‬
‭the right side of the editor when the object(s) you want to edit are selected.‬
‭This menu is what enables you to change attributes of your objects through‬
‭various options, as well as adding Group IDs to link to‬‭Triggers‬‭.‬

‭Functionality‬
‭The options are used to set editor layer, assign Group IDs, change the Z‬
‭position, set the Order, and set up Channels. Here is a list of all the settings‬
‭seen in figure 6.1 and a short explanation of what they do.‬
‭●‬ ‭Editor L and Editor L2:‬‭These options place objects‬‭at different editor‬
‭layers. Objects will appear on both editor layers once set. If "Editor L2" is 0,‬
‭however, the objects will only appear on the layer set in "Editor L". You can‬
‭use the "+" buttons to get the lowest layer that has no objects placed on it.‬
‭●‬ ‭Z Layer:‬‭Seen at the bottom, this is used as the drawing‬‭order of objects. In‬
‭order of increasing priority, it goes from "B5" to "T4" selected by the‬

‭54‬

‭buttons. Objects in layers starting with a "B" are below the player, while‬
‭objects in layers starting with a "T" are above the player. When multiple‬
‭selected objects are in different "Z Layers", you can use the "+" and "-"‬
‭buttons to move everything up or down one step in layer respectively. To‬
‭change the drawing order of objects even further, see below.‬
‭●‬ ‭Tileset:‬‭This term is not directly seen in figure‬‭6.1, but its value marked to‬
‭the right of "Z Layer" in parentheses. It specifies the tileset number of the‬
‭selected object(s). For similar types of objects, this will typically be the‬
‭same value. For different types of objects in the same "Z Layer", the tileset‬
‭value specifies its priority. Within the same "Z Layer", an object with a lower‬
‭tileset number is always drawn above one with a higher value. To bypass‬
‭this, you can move the object with a higher value to a higher "Z layer". See‬
‭figure 6.2 for an example.‬
‭●‬ ‭Z Order:‬‭Seen in the top right of figure 6.1, this‬‭sets the drawing order of‬
‭objects that are in the same "Z Layer" and also have the same tileset‬
‭number. If this is the case, putting a higher "Z Order" makes it drawn on‬
‭top. You can input positive and negative values in this field.‬
‭●‬ ‭Add Group ID:‬‭Assign up to ten Group IDs, which you‬‭can later use in other‬
‭Triggers. How to use Group IDs is covered later in this chapter.‬
‭●‬ ‭ORD:‬‭This option only appears for‬‭Gameplay Objects‬‭and‬‭Triggers‬‭. It sets‬
‭an Order in which the objects get activated.‬
‭●‬ ‭CH:‬‭This option only appears for‬‭Gameplay Objects‬‭and‬‭Triggers‬‭. It assigns‬
‭a Channel to the objects, which are used for‬‭Rotate‬‭Gameplay Triggers‬‭to‬
‭work with different gameplay directions. See‬‭Channel‬‭System‬‭for more‬
‭information.‬
‭Copy and paste settings from different objects using the "Copy" and "Paste"‬
‭buttons in the top right. The "Extra" and "Extra2" categories have special‬
‭options, and are covered‬‭below‬‭.‬

‭55‬

‭Using Groups‬
‭Group IDs are essential for Trigger usage. You can add up to ten Group IDs to‬
‭a specific object. To assign a Group ID to objects, enter the Group ID you want‬
‭to add into the number field and click the "Add" button. The number will be‬
‭added to the window below in gray, as seen in figure 6.3. Clicking the "Next‬
‭Free" button inputs the lowest Group ID value that has not been used in the‬
‭level yet.‬

‭56‬

‭To remove a Group ID, simply click the one you want to remove. If you have a‬
‭single object selected, a new "P" button appears next to "Add". This is used to‬
‭mark the object as Group Parent ID. After clicking the "P" button, the‬
‭corresponding Group ID will show in pink instead of the normal gray, as seen‬
‭in figure 6.4. You can use Group Parent IDs for different‬‭Triggers‬‭.‬

‭Extra Options‬
‭Extra options are in the "Extra" and "Extra2" buttons on the right side of the‬
‭menu. These tabs have many options that change the attributes of objects,‬
‭some of which are only accessible if the selected object is a‬‭Gameplay Object‬
‭or‬‭Trigger‬‭, and others are only useful for Platformer.‬‭Here is a list and a short‬
‭explanation of the options in "Extra" do:‬
‭●‬ ‭Dont Fade:‬‭Disables fading in and out when entering‬‭and exiting the‬
‭screen. This is default behavior for all visible objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dont Enter:‬‭Disables any applied‬‭Enter Effects‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭No Effects:‬‭This option deactivates the effects of‬‭Portals. Some examples‬
‭include the Background lightning for Size Portals and gravity lines for‬
‭Gravity Portals.‬
‭57‬

‭●‬ ‭Group Parent:‬‭Sets an object as a Group ID Parent, which is used for‬
‭scaling and rotating objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Area Parent:‬‭Marks an object as the Area Parent, which‬‭can be used for‬
‭Area Triggers‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dont Boost Y/Dont Boost X:‬‭Disables the player being‬‭boosted by a‬
‭moving object for the given axis.‬
‭●‬ ‭High Detail:‬‭Marks an object as High Detail. Objects‬‭marked as High Detail‬
‭get disabled when the player enables the Low Detail Mode on the level‬
‭page. This is useful if your level has a lot of extra, unnecessary details that‬
‭can lead to poor performance for some users.‬
‭●‬ ‭NoTouch:‬‭Disables interactions between the player‬‭and the objects‬
‭●‬ ‭Passable:‬‭You can jump through solid objects but land‬‭on them from the‬
‭top.‬
‭●‬ ‭Hide:‬‭Makes objects invisible.‬
‭●‬ ‭NonStickX/NonStickY:‬‭Only usable for Platformer. The‬‭player will stick to‬
‭moving objects by default. This option removes the friction so the player‬
‭does not stick to the objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭ExtraSticky:‬‭When the player stands on an object that‬‭moves down too‬
‭fast, the player will not stick to the block anymore. This option increases‬
‭how sticky it is.‬
‭●‬ ‭Extended Collision:‬‭Objects with a scale larger than‬‭a value of 6 have‬
‭inaccurate hitboxes. This option fixes the hitbox to be accurate again. Note‬
‭that this does not apply to the visuals of objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭IceBlock:‬‭Only usable for Platformer. This option‬‭makes blocks slippery, so‬
‭the player slides further. Controls are also harder.‬
‭●‬ ‭GripSlope:‬‭By default, the player can not slide up‬‭steep slopes and will‬
‭slide down instead. With this option enabled, the player has more grip on‬
‭slopes so that they can slide up.‬

‭58‬

‭●‬ ‭NoGlow:‬‭Disables the glow emitted from solid objects and Spikes, as seen‬
‭in figure 6.5.‬

‭●‬ ‭ScaleStick:‬‭By default, the player's X position will‬‭not change when‬
‭standing on a scaling object. With this option enabled, the player's‬
‭position moves the corresponding distance from the scale center.‬
‭●‬ ‭NoParticle:‬‭Disables the particles on Orbs and Portals.‬
‭●‬ ‭Center Effect:‬‭When previewing Triggers with "Touch‬‭Trigger" enabled in‬
‭the editor, the effect spawns when the player touches the Trigger at all.‬
‭With this option enabled, it will only spawn when at the Trigger center.‬
‭●‬ ‭Single PTouch:‬‭This option is used for Rotate Gameplay‬‭Triggers and Dual‬
‭Mode. If one of the players touches the Trigger, only that one is affected.‬
‭●‬ ‭No Audio Scale:‬‭Disables pulsing for both Orbs and‬‭Pulsing Objects. See‬
‭the figure below.‬

‭59‬

‭Special IDs‬
‭Special IDs are in the "Extra2" tab and are used for some‬‭Triggers‬‭. They have‬
‭no effect on their own. Here is a list of all the Special IDs and a short‬
‭explanation of their usage.‬
‭●‬ ‭Enter Channel:‬‭Enter Channel IDs are used for‬‭Enter‬‭Effects‬‭and‬‭Custom‬
‭Enter Effects‬‭, which are covered in greater detail‬‭later. You can click the "+"‬
‭button to get the lowest Enter Channel ID that is unused.‬
‭●‬ ‭Material:‬‭You can assign Material IDs to objects for‬‭set events upon‬
‭interaction. For example, you can add a Material ID to all ground blocks‬
‭and use it in‬‭Event Triggers‬‭to Trigger a stone sound‬‭whenever the player‬
‭lands on them.‬
‭●‬ ‭ControlID:‬‭This option is only available for‬‭Gameplay‬‭Objects‬‭and‬‭Triggers‬‭.‬
‭Control IDs are used to reference specific objects when using the‬
‭remapping setting in‬‭Spawn Triggers‬‭.‬

‭When using "Edit Group" with a Trigger, additional options "EDP" and "EDO"‬
‭show below the "Extra" buttons. "EDP" stands for editor preview, and it‬
‭enables "Touch Trigger" Triggers while playtesting. "EDO" stands for editor‬
‭playback object, which makes music playtesting start from this Trigger.‬

‭60‬

‭7. Triggers‬
‭Description‬
‭There are over a hundred Triggers in the game. These are found in the second‬
‭to last tab, seen below. As explained earlier, Triggers are used to perform‬
‭various complex actions. They may alter visible objects, such as blocks, in‬
‭some way, or just change the gameplay or visuals. Since they work in this way,‬
‭they are never visible objects that can be seen when playing a level. You place‬
‭them in the editor, and they do their action when the player passes the‬
‭Trigger's position or other linked events. For example, Triggers that have the‬
‭"Touch Trigger" option enabled will be triggered when the player touches‬
‭them. There is also a "Spawn Trigger" option, which means it is spawned by a‬
‭Spawn Trigger‬‭or different conditional Triggers, like‬‭Touch Triggers‬‭,‬‭Count‬
‭Triggers‬‭,‬‭Time Triggers‬‭, and more.‬

‭Below this, every Trigger is covered in-depth in order. If you are unsure about‬
‭the name of a Trigger found in-game, you can find it by looking at the title‬
‭inside‬‭Edit Object‬‭. This is also where you will edit‬‭a Trigger's settings. Note‬
‭that you can also find some simple quick help there by clicking the‬
‭information button (shown as an "i" in one of the corners). This guide works‬
‭best as an additional resource if any of that text is unclear. Previous‬
‭knowledge in this document, such as‬‭Edit Group‬‭, is‬‭expected to be able to‬
‭work with Triggers well.‬

‭61‬

‭Start Pos‬
‭This Trigger is used to set a custom starting location of the player for‬
‭playtesting. Levels cannot be verified if they include a Start Pos Trigger.‬
‭The "Speed" and "Mode" options are used to set the‬‭Speed‬‭and‬‭Game Mode‬‭to‬
‭use from the Trigger. The "Options" menu features more settings, such as‬
‭starting in Mini Mode, Dual Mode, or Rotated Gameplay.‬
‭The "Reset Camera" option resets all prior camera settings.‬
‭"Target Order" and "Target Channel" refer to the "Order" and "Channel"‬
‭options found in the‬‭Edit Group‬‭menu. They are used‬‭to activate‬‭Gameplay‬
‭Objects‬‭and Triggers in a specific order.‬
‭You can temporarily disable a Start Pos by enabling the "Disable" option.‬

‭Color‬
‭Color Triggers are used to change the settings of a Color Channel. It works the‬
‭same way as the normal color selection, which was covered in the‬‭Select Color‬
‭section.‬
‭The "Color ID" field refers to what Color Channel you want to edit. You can‬
‭click the "+" button for more options, such as the Background Color.‬
‭If you wish to change a Color Channel to the player's colors, you can use‬
‭"Player Color 1" or "Player Color 2".‬
‭The "Blending" option applies blending to the color, which makes it multiply‬
‭with the colors below it.‬
‭62‬

‭By enabling the "Copy Color" option, you can copy the color of a different‬
‭Color Channel. The Color Channel you wish to copy is input in the "Channel‬
‭ID" field. You can change attributes of the color you copy by using the "Hue",‬
‭"Saturation", and "Brightness" sliders.‬
‭You can use the "Copy" and "Paste" buttons to copy the color from one Color‬
‭Trigger to another. By clicking the "Default" button, it will automatically show‬
‭the color the corresponding Color Channel has in the‬‭Select Color‬‭screen.‬

‭Move‬
‭This Trigger is used to move a specific Group ID. Its interface is seen below.‬
‭After that, each option is described.‬

‭63‬

‭●‬ ‭Target Group ID:‬‭The Group ID you want to move.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move X:‬‭Moves blocks along the X-axis. One block is‬‭equal to a value of 10.‬
‭Input a positive number to move to the right, and a negative one to move‬
‭to the left.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Y:‬‭Moves blocks along the Y-axis. One block is‬‭equal to a value of 10.‬
‭Input a positive number to move up, and a negative one to move down.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Time:‬‭The duration you want the movement to last.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the objects‬‭start and end their‬
‭movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Player:‬‭You can select a "Player" option for both‬‭the X-axis and Y-axis.‬
‭When this option is selected, the objects will follow the player's movement‬
‭in the given direction.‬
‭●‬ ‭Camera:‬‭The "Camera" option can also be selected for‬‭both the X-axis and‬
‭Y-axis. It functions similarly to the "Player" option, but follows the screen‬
‭movement instead of the player movement.‬

‭●‬ ‭Target Mode:‬‭Moves the objects to a "Target Group‬‭ID". This must be a‬
‭single object. "Center Group ID" declares the center of the objects you‬
‭want to move. This must also consist of a single object only. Selecting "P1"‬
‭or "P2" declares Player 1 or 2, in Dual Mode, respectively as "Target Group"‬
‭and moves the objects to that player's location instead.‬

‭64‬

‭●‬ ‭Direction Mode:‬‭Moves the objects in the direction of a "Target Group ID".‬
‭This must be a single object. "Center Group ID" declares the center of the‬
‭objects you want to move. This must also be a single object. Selecting "P1"‬
‭or "P2" declares Player 1 or 2, in Dual Mode, respectively as "Target Group"‬
‭and moves the objects to that player's location instead. "Distance"‬
‭indicates how far in the direction the objects move. As before, one block is‬
‭equal to a value of 10.‬

‭●‬ ‭Small Step:‬‭Enabling this option changes the value‬‭for one block from 10‬
‭to 30. This improves accuracy and allows for more precise movements.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative:‬‭This option checks if the "Target Group‬‭ID" moves when in‬
‭"Target Mode" or "Direction Mode". Normally the Trigger will only check‬
‭upon activation where the target is and move towards that direction. With‬
‭"Relative" enabled, it will update its direction based on the target moving.‬
‭●‬ ‭Silent:‬‭In Platformer mode, the player sticks to solid‬‭blocks that move‬
‭instantly. With this option enabled, blocks move instantly without the‬
‭player following their movement.‬

‭65‬

‭Stop‬
‭This Trigger shows as a Stop, Pause or Resume Trigger depending on what‬
‭option you choose inside "Edit Object".‬
‭"Stop" is used to stop the action of other Triggers permanently. Give the‬
‭Triggers you want to stop a Group ID and enter that Group ID in the Stop‬
‭Trigger.‬
‭"Pause" pauses the action of other Triggers temporarily. Give the Triggers you‬
‭want to pause a Group ID and enter that Group ID in the Stop Trigger. The‬
‭difference to a Stop Trigger is that you can resume the Trigger later by using a‬
‭Resume Trigger.‬
‭"Resume" resumes the action of other Triggers. Give the Triggers you want to‬
‭resume a Group ID and enter that Group ID in the Stop Trigger. Only Triggers‬
‭that were paused with a Pause Trigger can be resumed.‬
‭"Use Control ID" allows you to only stop a specific Group ID when using‬
‭remapping. For example, if you remap a‬‭Spawn Trigger‬‭to use Group IDs 1, 2,‬
‭and 3, and you only want to stop Group ID 3, you can enter a "Control ID" and‬
‭enable the option in the Stop Trigger. You can find the "Control ID" option in‬
‭the "Extra 2" category after clicking "Edit Group".‬

‭66‬

‭Pulse‬
‭This Trigger is normally used to change the color of a Color Channel or Group‬
‭ID temporarily. The interface and various options are as follows:‬

‭●‬ ‭Channel:‬‭With "Channel", you pulse an entire Color‬‭Channel. Clicking the‬
‭"+" button allows you to select a special color. This includes for example the‬
‭Background, Ground, Middleground, and Player Colors.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group:‬‭With "Group", you pulse objects with that Group‬‭ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Main Only and Secondary Only:‬‭These options are only‬‭available when‬
‭clicking "Group". Some objects have a Base Color and Detail Color, which‬
‭can be seen in the "Edit Object" menu.‬
‭●‬ ‭Color:‬‭With "Color", the objects pulse the color you‬‭select.‬
‭●‬ ‭HSV:‬‭With "HSV", you can pulse the objects using another‬‭"Color ID" and‬
‭change the "Hue", "Saturation" and "Brightness" of that "Color ID". If you‬
‭leave this value at 0, you pulse the color you put into the "Channel ID" field‬
‭67‬

‭●‬ ‭Fade In:‬‭The duration for the objects to reach the pulse color.‬
‭●‬ ‭Hold:‬‭How long the objects hold the pulse color.‬
‭●‬ ‭Fade Out:‬‭The duration for the objects to return to‬‭their original color.‬
‭●‬ ‭Exclusive:‬‭This option disables all other pulses with‬‭the same ID, and only‬
‭plays the current pulse.‬

‭Alpha‬
‭This Trigger is used to change the opacity of an object over a given time‬
‭frame. The options are as follows:‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The objects you want to change the opacity‬‭of.‬
‭●‬ ‭Fade Time:‬‭The duration until the objects reach the‬‭set opacity.‬
‭●‬ ‭Opacity:‬‭The opacity you want the objects to have.‬

‭Toggle‬
‭The Toggle Trigger enables or disables objects. Objects that are disabled are‬
‭invisible, and the player cannot interact with them anymore.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The objects you want to disable or enable.‬
‭●‬ ‭Activate Group:‬‭With this option enabled the objects‬‭will be enabled. With‬
‭the option disabled, objects will be disabled.‬

‭Spawn‬
‭Spawn Triggers can activate other Triggers.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The Triggers you want to spawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭Delay:‬‭The delay before you spawn the Trigger.‬
‭●‬ ‭Preview Disabled:‬‭Disables the Spawn Trigger when‬‭in "Preview Mode".‬
‭The Trigger will still activate when you playtest in the editor.‬
‭68‬

‭●‬ ‭Spawn Ordered:‬‭All Triggers within this Group ID will be activated from‬
‭left to right, with the distance between the Triggers indicating the delay‬
‭between them.‬
‭●‬ ‭Reset Remap:‬‭Resets the remapping of Group IDs.‬

‭You can use the second page of the Trigger's interface to remap Spawn‬
‭Trigger setups. This is useful to save Group IDs.‬

‭69‬

‭Due to this being complex, we will use an example. In figure 7.8, we are‬
‭moving a block left and right by using a Spawn Loop. Now we want to add‬
‭another block that also moves left and right. Normally we would need to copy‬
‭all the Triggers and change their values. With remapping, we can copy the‬
‭Spawn Trigger on the left, and remap the Group ID of the old setup to the‬
‭new block. This is seen in figure 7.9.‬

‭Now Group ID 4 will behave the same as Group ID 1. You can spawn Group ID‬
‭4 at a later time to offset the two block movements. This particular‬
‭remapping saves 3 Group IDs.‬
‭70‬

‭Rotate‬
‭This Trigger is used to rotate a specific Group ID. Its interface is seen below.‬
‭After that, each option is described.‬

‭●‬ ‭Target Group ID:‬‭The objects you want to rotate.‬
‭●‬ ‭Center Group ID:‬‭The center the objects should rotate‬‭around. This Group‬
‭ID can only consist of a single object. Leaving this as 0 will result in all‬
‭objects rotating around their own center.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Time:‬‭The duration you want the rotation to last.‬
‭●‬ ‭Degrees:‬‭How many degrees you want the objects to‬‭rotate. Enter a‬
‭negative value to rotate counter-clockwise and enter a positive value to‬
‭rotate clockwise.‬
‭●‬ ‭x360:‬‭How many full rotations (360 degrees) you want‬‭to do. Enter a‬
‭negative value to rotate counter-clockwise and enter a positive value to‬
‭rotate clockwise.‬

‭71‬

‭●‬ ‭Aim Mode:‬‭The objects will face towards the "Rot Target‬‭ID". This must be a‬
‭Group ID with a single object. You can offset the rotation with "Rot Offset".‬
‭Choosing "P1" or "P2" will make the objects face towards Player 1 and Player‬
‭2 respectively. If this is enabled, you can limit the rotation to be between‬
‭objects set on the second page of the Trigger.‬
‭●‬ ‭Follow Mode:‬‭The objects will follow the rotation‬‭of "Rot Target ID". This‬
‭must be a Group ID with a single object. You can offset the rotation with‬
‭"Rot Offset". Choosing "P1" or "P2" will make the objects face towards‬
‭Player 1 and Player 2 respectively.‬

‭●‬ ‭Dynamic Mode:‬‭This option checks if the target moves‬‭when in "Aim‬
‭Mode" or "Follow Mode". Normally the Trigger will only check upon‬
‭activation where the target is and face towards that direction. Moving the‬
‭Target Group ID does not update the direction. With "Dynamic Mode"‬
‭enabled, it will update its direction based on the target moving.‬
‭72‬

‭●‬ ‭Lock Obj Rotation:‬‭The objects themselves will not rotate but instead only‬
‭update their position.‬

‭Scale‬
‭This Trigger is used to scale a specific Group ID. Its interface is seen below.‬
‭After that, each option is described.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Group ID:‬‭The objects you want to scale.‬
‭●‬ ‭Center Group ID:‬‭The center the objects should scale‬‭from. This Group ID‬
‭can only consist of a single object. Leaving this as 0 will result in all objects‬
‭scaling from their own center.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭The duration you want the scaling to last.‬
‭●‬ ‭ScaleX/ScaleY:‬‭How much you want to scale the objects‬‭in the X and Y‬
‭direction respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Div by Value X/Value Y:‬‭Divides the current scale‬‭by this number and uses‬
‭this as the target value.‬
‭If you want to scale an object and have it return to its original size, you can‬
‭use "ScaleX/ScaleY" like normal on the first Scale Trigger, and simply tick the‬
‭"Div by Value" boxes when scaling back on another Scale Trigger. For‬
‭example, if you want to scale a block to 3.00, put "ScaleX" and "ScaleY" to 3.00.‬
‭If you want it to return to 1.00 now, you would need to put 1/3 into the fields.‬
‭This is not possible and leads to inaccuracies. By ticking the "Divide by Value"‬
‭box, you divide the scale by 3.00, which brings you back to 1.00.‬
‭●‬ ‭Only Move:‬‭The objects will only move to the place‬‭they would be when‬
‭you scale them. They will not change their size.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative Rotation:‬‭When blocks are rotated, they will‬‭rotate their X-axis‬
‭and Y-axis as well. Turning this option on draws a new X-axis and Y-axis and‬
‭73‬

‭puts it at the correct place. In the example below, the blocks are rotated 45‬
‭degrees.‬

‭●‬ ‭Relative Scale:‬‭This option makes the scale value‬‭adjust based on a‬
‭reference object. Normally, if you scale an object down by 0.95 for example,‬
‭each scale will be smaller and smaller. With this option enabled, the scale‬
‭will instead refer to the object in the Center Group ID to decide what the‬
‭next scale factor should be.‬

‭Follow‬
‭This Trigger is used to make objects mimic the movement of other objects. All‬
‭options are explained below.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Group ID:‬‭The objects you want to follow another‬‭Group ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Follow Group ID:‬‭The Group ID that should be followed.‬‭This Group ID can‬
‭only consist of a single object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Time:‬‭How long you want the objects to follow‬‭the Group ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭X Mod/Y Mod:‬‭The values you put here will be multiplied‬‭with the‬
‭movement of the "Follow Group ID". For example, if the "Follow Group ID"‬
‭74‬

‭moves 50 blocks to the right, and you put 0.5 in "X Mod", the objects move‬
‭25 blocks to the right instead of 50.‬

‭Shake‬
‭The Shake Trigger applies a temporary shake effect to the screen. Be careful‬
‭to not overuse this Trigger or input large numbers into the options, as it may‬
‭result in a bad experience for players. The options are explained below.‬
‭●‬ ‭Strength:‬‭How intense the shake effect is.‬
‭●‬ ‭Interval:‬‭The interval between every shake effect.‬‭Leaving this value at 0‬
‭results in the screen shaking every frame.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long the shake effect is applied to‬‭the screen.‬

‭Animate‬
‭The Animate Trigger is used to give custom animations to Monsters, and it‬
‭can also be used to activate the animation of‬‭Animated‬‭Objects‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The Group ID of the objects you want to‬‭animate or change the‬
‭animation of.‬
‭●‬ ‭Animation ID:‬‭Only used for Monsters. Check the information‬‭box in-game‬
‭to get information about what "Animation ID" refers to what monster.‬

‭75‬

‭Keyframe Animation‬
‭This Trigger is used to activate a keyframe animation. You can find all settings‬
‭below, as well as a detailed example of its usage in the‬‭Keyframe System‬
‭chapter.‬
‭●‬ ‭Animation Group ID:‬‭Group ID of your‬‭Keyframe Triggers‬‭.‬‭It is enough for‬
‭the first Keyframe Trigger in your animation to have this Group ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target ID:‬‭The objects you want to follow the animation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Parent ID:‬‭The Group ID that should be used as the‬‭center for scaling and‬
‭rotating. By default objects will choose their own center. You can also set‬
‭the center of the objects using the "Group Parent ID".‬
‭●‬ ‭Time/Position/Rotation/Scale Mod:‬‭The values you put‬‭here will be‬
‭multiplied with the movement of the keyframes. For example, if the‬
‭keyframes move 50 blocks to the right, rotate 90 degrees, and scale to‬
‭4.00, and you put 0.5 for all modifiers, the target objects will only move 25‬
‭blocks, rotate 45 degrees, and scale to 2.00.‬

‭Follow Player Y‬
‭Follow Player Y Triggers are used to make objects follow the Y movement of‬
‭the player. The movement can be modified by using the different options‬
‭explained below.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Group ID:‬‭The objects you want to follow the‬‭player's Y movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Time:‬‭How long you want the objects to follow‬‭the player's Y‬
‭movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭Modifies the speed the object has when following‬‭the movement‬
‭of the player. The value you put here will be multiplied with the player‬
‭movement. For example, if the player moves 5 blocks per second and you‬
‭put 0.5, the objects will move 2.5 blocks per second.‬
‭76‬

‭●‬ ‭Delay:‬‭Delay before the objects follow the movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset:‬‭Offsets the objects. Normally the objects‬‭will snap to the exact Y‬
‭position. A value of 10 is equal to one block offset above the player. Enter a‬
‭negative value to offset below the player.‬
‭●‬ ‭Max Speed:‬‭The maximum speed the objects can reach‬‭when following‬
‭the movement. The formula used to calculate the speed is (Max‬
‭Speed/(Max Speed + 1)). Thus, if you put 5.0 for "Max Speed", for example,‬
‭the objects will do 5/6 of the movement the player did in the same time.‬

‭Advanced Follow‬
‭Advanced Follow Triggers are used to make objects move towards a target‬
‭and make them follow its movement. They are by far one of the most‬
‭complex Triggers in the game. We highly suggest you follow along on your‬
‭own example when testing out the options.‬

‭77‬

‭●‬ ‭Target GID:‬‭The Group ID of the objects that should go towards the Group‬
‭ID set in "Follow GID".‬
‭●‬ ‭Follow GID:‬‭The Group ID of the object that should‬‭be the new target. You‬
‭can choose from the buttons below for more options.‬
‭●‬ ‭Priority:‬‭The priority at which the movements will‬‭be applied if an object is‬
‭affected by more than one Advanced Follow Trigger.‬
‭●‬ ‭X Only/Y Only:‬‭The objects will only follow the X‬‭or Y movement of the‬
‭Group ID in "Follow GID" respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭P1/P2/C:‬‭Corresponds to Player 1, Player 2, and the‬‭screen center‬
‭respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotation Offset:‬‭Offsets the rotation of the objects.‬‭Enter a negative value‬
‭to offset the rotation to the left or a positive value to offset the duration to‬
‭the right.‬
‭●‬ ‭Ignore Disabled:‬‭The movement is not applied if the‬‭objects are not‬
‭active. Activating them again starts the movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotate Dir:‬‭Makes the objects rotate towards the target.‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotate Easing:‬‭Adds easing to the rotation of the‬‭objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotate DeadZ:‬‭A deadzone for the rotation of the objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Init:‬‭This option is used for the second and third‬‭mode, and controls how‬
‭the values you define in "Startspeed" and "StartDir" are applied. With this‬
‭option, the values are used only when the object has no speed values.‬
‭●‬ ‭Set:‬‭This option is used for the second and third‬‭mode, and controls how‬
‭the values you define in "Startspeed" and "StartDir" are applied. With this‬
‭option, any current velocity gets overridden.‬
‭●‬ ‭Add:‬‭This option is used for the second and third‬‭mode, and controls how‬
‭the values you define in "Startspeed" and "StartDir" are applied. With this‬
‭option, the velocity gets added to the current one.‬
‭●‬ ‭Exclusive:‬‭Advanced Follow Triggers have a "Priority"‬‭value. When multiple‬
‭Advanced Follow Triggers for the same object are active, it will process‬

‭78‬

‭them in order based on "Priority". If an action is exclusive, it will not process‬
‭any other actions after it.‬
‭On the second page you can choose between 3 different modes by using the‬
‭three buttons labeled 1, 2, and 3 in the top right. We will be going through all‬
‭options and what their differences are.‬
‭The "+-" sliders on all options indicate variations. For example, if you input a‬
‭"Delay" of 3 and enter 2 into the "+-" field, the "Delay" will randomly be chosen‬
‭in a range of 2 below and above. As a result, you get 1 to 5 "Delay"..‬

‭In the first mode, the objects will simply move towards the target.‬
‭●‬ ‭Delay:‬‭Delay before the movement starts.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxSpeed:‬‭Max speed the objects can reach. Leaving‬‭this at 0 results in no‬
‭movement at all.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxRange:‬‭Range in which the "Follow GID" has to be‬‭to the "Target GID"‬
‭to start the movement. One block is equal to 30.‬

‭79‬

‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Adds an easing to the start and end of the movement.‬
‭In the second mode, the objects will also move towards the target. However,‬
‭you have more options to customize the movement depending on how close‬
‭the objects are to the target.‬

‭●‬ ‭Delay:‬‭Delay before the movement starts.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxSpeed:‬‭Max speed the objects can reach. Leaving‬‭this at 0 results in no‬
‭movement at all.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxRange:‬‭Range in which the "Follow GID" has to be‬‭to the "Target GID"‬
‭to start the movement. One block is equal to 30.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartSpeed:‬‭The speed the objects have when they start‬‭their movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartDir:‬‭The direction the objects face when they‬‭start their movement,‬
‭with 0 meaning up, 90 right. and so on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Acceleration:‬‭The acceleration of the objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Friction:‬‭The friction that is applied to the objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭NearDist:‬‭At what distance the objects are considered‬‭near the target. One‬
‭block is equal to 30.‬

‭80‬

‭●‬ ‭NearFriction:‬‭The friction of the objects when they get near the target.‬
‭What counts as near is configured by the "NearDist" value.‬
‭●‬ ‭NearAccel:‬‭The acceleration of the objects when they‬‭get near the target.‬
‭What counts as near is configured by the "NearDist" value.‬
‭The three boxes on the right correspond to their respective options. They‬
‭apply their setting towards a set reference object. "MaxRange" will be drawn‬
‭from the objects to the reference object. "StartSpeed" functions like a‬
‭multiplier in this setting. It will copy the movement speed of the reference‬
‭object. By inputting a 2 in the slider, you double the speed. "StartDir" makes‬
‭the objects face towards the reference object.‬
‭In the third mode the objects will also move towards the target. However, you‬
‭can also edit more attributes of the movement.‬

‭81‬

‭●‬ ‭Delay:‬‭Delay before the movement starts.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxSpeed:‬‭Max speed the objects can reach. Leaving‬‭this at 0 results in no‬
‭movement at all.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxRange:‬‭Range in which the "Follow GID" has to be‬‭to the "Target GID"‬
‭to start the movement. One block is equal to 30.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartSpeed:‬‭The speed the objects have when they start‬‭their movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartDir:‬‭The direction the objects face when they‬‭start their movement,‬
‭with 0 meaning up, 90 right and so on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Acceleration:‬‭The acceleration of the objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭SteerForce:‬‭The force that is applied when the objects‬‭steer towards the‬
‭target.‬

‭82‬

‭The three boxes on the right correspond to their respective options. They‬
‭apply their setting towards a reference object. "MaxRange" will be drawn from‬
‭the objects to the reference object. "StartSpeed" functions like a multiplier in‬
‭this setting. It will copy the movement speed of the reference object. By‬
‭inputting a 2 in the slider, you double the speed. "StartDir" makes the objects‬
‭face towards the reference object.‬
‭●‬ ‭SteerForceLow:‬‭The lowest the steer force can get.‬
‭●‬ ‭SpeedRangeLow:‬‭The speed of the objects when they‬‭are not within the‬
‭"MaxRange".‬
‭●‬ ‭SteerForceHigh:‬‭The highest the steer force can get.‬
‭●‬ ‭SpeedRangeHigh:‬‭The speed of the objects when they‬‭are within the‬
‭"MaxRange".‬
‭●‬ ‭SlowAccel:‬‭The acceleration of the objects when in‬‭the "SlowDist" distance‬
‭from the target object.‬
‭●‬ ‭SlowDist:‬‭The distance from the target object that‬‭is considered slow,‬
‭which applies the "SlowAccel" setting. One block is equal to 30.‬
‭●‬ ‭BreakForce:‬‭The force at which the objects brake when‬‭the target‬
‭suddenly goes in a different direction.‬
‭●‬ ‭BreakAngle:‬‭The angle at which the objects will brake.‬
‭●‬ ‭BreakSteerForce:‬‭The force at which the objects steer‬‭while braking.‬
‭●‬ ‭BreakSteer SpeedLimit:‬‭The max speed at which the‬‭objects can steer‬
‭while braking.‬
‭You can select from two premade settings by clicking the "Pre" button.‬

‭83‬

‭Edit Advanced Follow‬
‭This Trigger is used to edit the attributes of an Advanced Follow Trigger. An‬
‭explanation of all options can be found below.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target GID:‬‭The Group ID of the objects that should‬‭go towards the‬
‭"Follow GID".‬
‭●‬ ‭X Only/Y Only:‬‭The objects will only apply the change‬‭on the X or Y‬
‭movement respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mod X/Mod Y:‬‭Modifies the movement on the X-axis and‬‭Y-axis‬
‭respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭Modifies the speed of the objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dir:‬‭Modifies the direction at which the movement‬‭is applied.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Control ID:‬‭Control ID allows you to only target‬‭a specific Group ID‬
‭when using remapping. For example, if you remap a‬‭Spawn Trigger‬‭to use‬
‭Group ID 1, 2, and 3, and you only want to target Group ID 3, you can enter‬
‭a Control ID and enable the option in the Trigger. You can find the Control‬
‭ID option in the "Extra 2" category after clicking "Edit Group" with the‬
‭Trigger selected.‬
‭●‬ ‭Redirect Dir:‬‭Redirects the direction towards a reference‬‭object, which is‬
‭input in the box to the right.‬
‭The two boxes on the right correspond to their respective options. They apply‬
‭their setting towards a reference object. "Speed" functions like a multiplier in‬
‭this setting. It will copy the movement speed of the reference object. By‬
‭inputting a 2 in the slider, you double the speed. "Dir" will apply the‬
‭movement towards the direction of the reference object.‬

‭84‬

‭Re-Target Advanced Follow‬
‭This Trigger is used to change the target of an Advanced Follow Trigger.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target GID:‬‭The Group ID of the objects that should‬‭go towards the Group‬
‭ID set in "Follow GID".‬
‭●‬ ‭Follow GID:‬‭The Group ID of the object that should‬‭be the new target. You‬
‭can choose from the buttons below for more options.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Control ID:‬‭Control ID allows you to only target‬‭a specific Group ID‬
‭when using remapping. For example, if you remap a‬‭Spawn Trigger‬‭to use‬
‭Group ID 1, 2, and 3, and you only want to target Group ID 3, you can enter‬
‭a Control ID and enable the option in the Trigger. You can find the Control‬
‭ID option in the "Extra 2" category after clicking "Edit Group" with the‬
‭Trigger selected.‬
‭●‬ ‭P1/P2/C:‬‭Corresponds to Player 1, Player 2, and the‬‭screen center‬
‭respectively.‬

‭Keyframe‬
‭This Trigger is used to set up keyframes. You can find an explanation of all‬
‭settings below, as well as an in-depth example in the‬‭Keyframe System‬
‭chapter.‬
‭The Keyframe Trigger is one of the most complex Triggers. We suggest‬
‭following along with your own example when testing the options.‬

‭85‬

‭●‬ ‭GroupID:‬‭The objects you want to reference for your‬‭animation. Note that‬
‭these are not necessarily the objects that will do the animation. Those‬
‭objects are normally set in the Keyframe Animation Trigger. "GroupID" in‬
‭this Trigger is mainly used for referencing the art when you enable‬
‭"Preview Art". However, it is also used as the target if you do not input any‬
‭override when calling the Keyframe Animation Trigger.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭The duration until the Keyframe Trigger‬‭reaches the next one.‬
‭This time is always used unless it is a "Ref Only" Keyframe. "Time", "Even"‬
‭and "Dist" set how the time is used.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Applies easing to the start and end of the‬‭keyframe.‬
‭●‬ ‭x360:‬‭If you want to do a full rotation (360 degrees)‬‭before reaching the‬
‭next keyframe.‬
‭●‬ ‭CCW/CW:‬‭Whether you want the rotation to be done clockwise‬‭or‬
‭counter-clockwise. Applies to all rotations, including full ones.‬

‭86‬

‭●‬ ‭SpawnGID:‬‭Spawns a Group ID when the target objects reach the‬
‭keyframe.‬
‭●‬ ‭SpawnDelay:‬‭Delay before "SpawnGID" is spawned.‬
‭●‬ ‭Prox:‬‭"SpawnGID" is spawned when the target objects‬‭are close to the‬
‭keyframe.‬
‭●‬ ‭Curve:‬‭Keyframes use Bézier curve to get to the next‬‭keyframe.‬
‭●‬ ‭Time:‬‭With this option enabled, "Duration" is used‬‭to reach the next‬
‭keyframe.‬
‭●‬ ‭Even:‬‭The time between the keyframes is distributed‬‭evenly between all‬
‭the "Ref Only" keyframes in between.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dist:‬‭The duration before reaching the next keyframe‬‭is distributed‬
‭between all "Ref Only" keyframes based on their distance from each other.‬
‭Let us look at an example to better understand how the different options‬
‭work.‬

‭87‬

‭The red Keyframe Triggers are marked as "Ref Only", while the green and blue‬
‭ones are not. The green keyframe controls the animation until the blue one,‬
‭and the blue one controls it until the end. If you set easing on the green‬
‭keyframe, that easing will be used to reach the blue keyframe. All red easing‬
‭values are ignored since they are reference points only.‬
‭The numbers in the figure are example durations set on the Triggers. If you‬
‭select "Time" on the green Keyframe Trigger, it will take 10 seconds to reach‬
‭the next red keyframe. Afterwards, the red keyframe's duration will be used to‬
‭reach the next one, so 5 seconds, and then 7 seconds from the next until you‬
‭reach the blue keyframe. As a result, it takes 22 seconds in total to reach the‬
‭blue one.‬
‭If you instead select "Even" on the green keyframe, it will ignore all the‬
‭duration values of the red (reference) keyframes, and evenly spread out the 10‬
‭seconds between each keyframes. As a result, it will take 10 seconds in total to‬
‭reach the blue one.‬
‭●‬ ‭Close Loop:‬‭The objects return back to the first keyframe‬‭after completing‬
‭the last one.‬
‭●‬ ‭Preview Art:‬‭Used to preview the art you want to animate.‬‭By default, you‬
‭only see the arrow icon. For this option to work, you have to put a Group ID‬
‭and also declare a Group Parent ID. With this option enabled, the objects‬
‭will spawn at the arrow position, with the Group Parent ID functioning like‬
‭the arrow icon.‬

‭88‬

‭●‬ ‭Ref Only:‬‭Reference objects. Objects marked as reference‬‭have a lower‬
‭opacity and are not considered for the "Even" and "Dist" options. Check the‬
‭corresponding options to see how their movement is handled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Auto Layer:‬‭Automatically layers the keyframes, so‬‭that the new one is the‬
‭highest. Most useful when using "Preview Art".‬
‭●‬ ‭Select All:‬‭Selects all keyframes.‬
‭●‬ ‭Update Art:‬‭Updates the art for the "Preview Art"‬‭option. Changes done to‬
‭the reference Group ID are not updated instantly, so you need to press this‬
‭if you change your design.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dup Anim:‬‭Duplicates the keyframes. You cannot copy‬‭and paste them‬
‭like normal, since the copy would be considered connected in that case.‬
‭●‬ ‭Reverse Order:‬‭Reverses the keyframe settings. For‬‭example, instead of‬
‭scaling by 2 and moving 5 blocks to the right, it will scale by 0.5 and move 5‬
‭blocks to the left.‬

‭89‬

‭Area Move/Rotate/Scale/Fade/Tint‬
‭Area Triggers are used to apply different effects to an area of objects. Due to‬
‭many Area Triggers having the same settings, we will be explaining their‬
‭general options first and provide specific ones below. Note that Area Triggers‬
‭are on the more complicated side. Follow along with your own example.‬
‭Area Triggers work by taking the center you provide, drawing a circle around‬
‭the center (or a specific direction depending on what you pick below the‬
‭"Deadzone" option). This is done using the length you provide and calculating‬
‭the steps in between. For example, if you have "From Opacity" at 1.00 and "To‬
‭Opacity" at 0.50, the center will be shown as 1.00 opacity, and the borders will‬
‭be at 0.50 opacity. All other steps in between will be calculated gradually. For‬
‭example, right in the middle (length/2), the opacity will be (1.00+0.50)/2 = 0.75.‬
‭Note that one block is equal to 30 for all of these.‬
‭●‬ ‭Length:‬‭Length in which objects will be affected..‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset:‬‭Offsets the center position in the X direction.‬‭The "+/-" is how off it‬
‭can go. For example, "Offset" at 120 with "+/-" at 30 would offset the center‬
‭between 3 and 5 blocks.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset Y:‬‭Offsets the center position in the Y direction.‬‭The "+/-" is how off it‬
‭can go. For example, "Offset" at 120 with "+/-" at 30 would offset the center‬
‭between 3 and 5 blocks.‬
‭●‬ ‭Deadzone:‬‭Divides the length by the value you set‬‭here and changes the‬
‭transition between center and edge accordingly. For example, having a‬
‭length of 120 and setting a "Deadzone" of 0.5 would do 0 to 100% between‬
‭0 and 60, and stay 100% from 60-120.‬

‭90‬

‭●‬ ‭ModFront/ModBack:‬‭Modify the front and back of your‬‭center position.‬
‭The value you put here is multiplied with your center.‬
‭●‬ ‭Ignore Linked:‬‭Objects linked together will be seen‬‭as one object by‬
‭default. Enabling this object disables this and makes the objects behave as‬
‭if they are not linked. Note that you have to set an object as Group Parent‬
‭or Area Trigger for this to work.‬
‭●‬ ‭Ignore GParent:‬‭If you set a Group Parent ID it will‬‭be seen as the center of‬
‭your objects, and all objects will behave exactly like that one. The action‬
‭also only starts when you are within this object's range. Enabling this‬
‭option disables the Group Parent ID and makes all blocks behave as if they‬
‭do not have a Group Parent ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dont Edit AreaParent:‬‭The object that is set as Group‬‭Parent ID will not‬
‭perform any of the area actions.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭The easing the objects have when they start‬‭their action.‬

‭91‬

‭●‬ ‭Ease Out:‬‭Allows modifying the easing the objects have when they end‬
‭their action.‬
‭●‬ ‭Priority:‬‭If several Area Triggers of the same kind‬‭are active at once, the‬
‭one with the higher priority will perform its action.‬
‭●‬ ‭Effect ID:‬‭Specific ID that can be referenced later,‬‭for example in‬‭Edit Area‬
‭Triggers‬‭.‬

‭●‬ ‭P1:‬‭Player 1.‬
‭●‬ ‭P2:‬‭Player 2.‬
‭●‬ ‭C:‬‭Center of the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭BL:‬‭Bottom left of the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭CL:‬‭Left of the screen from the center.‬
‭●‬ ‭TL:‬‭Top left of the screen.‬
‭92‬

‭●‬ ‭BC:‬‭Bottom of the screen from the center.‬
‭●‬ ‭TC:‬‭Top of the screen from the center.‬
‭●‬ ‭BR:‬‭Bottom right of the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭CR:‬‭Right of the screen from the center.‬
‭●‬ ‭TR:‬‭Top right of the screen.‬

‭The buttons below the "Deadzone" option indicate what direction the length‬
‭will be drawn. Here’s a table of all the variations and what their range looks‬
‭like.‬

‭93‬

‭Table 7.1: Direction settings.‬

‭94‬

‭95‬

‭96‬

‭For Area Move, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭MoveDist:‬‭Distance the objects move.‬
‭●‬ ‭MoveAngle:‬‭Angle in which objects move. 0 is up, 90‬‭right, 180 down, 270‬
‭left, and so on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative:‬‭Moves away in angle depending on where the‬‭center is. If the‬
‭center is above the object, it will move down. If it is to the right, it will move‬
‭left, and so on.‬
‭●‬ ‭RFade:‬‭Fade when using "Relative". Basically distance‬‭ratio between‬
‭objects. 0 means a big gap, and the higher the number the smaller the‬
‭gap ratio.‬
‭●‬ ‭XY Mode:‬‭You can enter X and Y values like in the‬‭normal‬‭Move Trigger‬
‭instead of choosing a direction.‬

‭97‬

‭For Area Rotate, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotation:‬‭The degrees you want the objects to rotate.‬‭Enter a positive‬
‭value to rotate clockwise, and a negative value to rotate counter-clockwise.‬
‭For Area Scale, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭ScaleX/ScaleY:‬‭The size the objects scale in the X-axis‬‭and Y-axis‬
‭respectively.‬
‭For Area Fade, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭From Opacity:‬‭The opacity the objects closest to the‬‭center have.‬
‭●‬ ‭To Opacity:‬‭The opacity the objects furthest from‬‭the center have.‬
‭For Area Tint, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭Color Channel:‬‭The color you want to tint the objects‬‭in.‬
‭●‬ ‭%:‬‭The percentage you want to tint the color. For‬‭example, if you want to‬
‭tint a black object white and set "%" to 0.5, the object will turn gray.‬
‭●‬ ‭Main Only and Secondary Only:‬‭Some objects have a‬‭Base Color and‬
‭Detail Color, which is seen in the "Edit Object" menu. These options only‬
‭change the these colors respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭HSV:‬‭Instead of tinting the color of a different Color‬‭Channel, you can‬
‭simply tint the same Color Channel and change the "HSV" values of it.‬

‭98‬

‭Edit Area Move/Rotate/Scale/Fade/Tint‬
‭Edit Area Triggers change the values of Area Triggers. Due to all options being‬
‭the same, you can check the section above to find detailed information about‬
‭all settings. Edit Area Triggers have the option to use Effect IDs to reference‬
‭Area Triggers. The Effect ID can be configured within the Area Triggers.‬

‭Area Stop‬
‭Area Stop Triggers stops Area Triggers. Area Stop Triggers can only reference‬
‭the Effect ID, which is configured in the Area Triggers.‬

‭Change BG/G/MG‬
‭These Triggers change the Background, Ground or Middleground‬
‭respectively. Pick a Background, Ground, or Middleground from the menu to‬
‭switch to the respective one from this Trigger's activation.‬

‭Touch‬
‭Touch Triggers are used to enable or disable a Group ID upon player touch.‬
‭Touch Triggers also function as‬‭Spawn Triggers‬‭, meaning‬‭that they can spawn‬
‭other Triggers. By default, the Touch Triggers switch between disabling and‬
‭enabling an object on player touch. It is worth noting, that moving left and‬
‭right also count as a player touch in Platformer, despite the player not‬
‭jumping.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The Group ID you want to enable, disable,‬‭or spawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭Hold Mode:‬‭Changes to enable the Group ID while the‬‭player holds, and‬
‭disabling when the player releases. By default the Touch Triggers switch‬
‭between disabling and enabling an object on player touch.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dual Mode:‬‭This is an obsolete option from 2.1, which‬‭disables counting‬
‭inputs from player 2. Avoid using this option and use "P1/P2 Only" instead.‬
‭99‬

‭●‬ ‭P1/P2 Only:‬‭Only counts touches from one player instead of both.‬
‭●‬ ‭Toggle On/Off:‬‭Toggles a Group ID on or off when the‬‭player touches. For‬
‭example, if you enable "Hold Mode" and "Toggle Off", holding will disable‬
‭the object and releasing will enable it. If you want to spawn a Group ID on‬
‭player touch, you should enable the "Toggle On" option.‬

‭Count‬
‭Count Triggers are used to enable, disable, or spawn a Group ID when an Item‬
‭ID reaches a specific number. Count IDs can be activated at any time when‬
‭that number is reached, as opposed to‬‭Instant Count‬‭Triggers‬‭which only‬
‭check if the condition is met when the Trigger is hit.‬
‭●‬ ‭Item ID:‬‭The Item ID you want to check the value for.‬‭Place the "0" object‬
‭and click "Edit Special" to configure a unique Item ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Count:‬‭The number the Item ID needs to have‬‭to activate the‬
‭Group ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target ID:‬‭The Group ID which should be enabled, disabled,‬‭or spawned‬
‭when the Item ID reaches the "Target Count".‬
‭●‬ ‭Activate Group:‬‭Enable this option to enable a Group‬‭ID, or to spawn a‬
‭Group ID. By default, the Group ID will be disabled when the count is‬
‭reached. Reaching the count again does not reactivate the Group ID, and‬
‭Triggers are only spawned if this option is enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Multi Activate:‬‭Allows the Group ID to be enabled,‬‭disabled, or spawned‬
‭again when the "Target Count" is reached several times. By default, the‬
‭action will only be performed once.‬

‭100‬

‭Instant Count‬
‭Instant Count Triggers are used to are used to enable, disable, or spawn a‬
‭Group ID if an Item ID is equal, smaller, or larger than a specific number.‬
‭Instant Count Triggers only check if the condition is met when they are hit‬
‭and never again afterwards, as opposed to‬‭Count Triggers‬‭which check for‬
‭their condition constantly.‬
‭●‬ ‭Item ID:‬‭The Item ID you want to check the value for.‬‭Place the "0" object‬
‭and click "Edit Special" to configure a unique Item ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Count:‬‭The number the Item ID needs to have‬‭to activate the‬
‭Group ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target ID:‬‭The Group ID which should be enabled, disabled,‬‭or spawned‬
‭when the Item ID reaches the "Target Count".‬
‭●‬ ‭Activate Group:‬‭Enable this option to enable a Group‬‭ID, or to spawn a‬
‭Group ID. By default, the Group ID will be disabled when the count is‬
‭reached. Reaching the count again does not reactivate the Group ID, and‬
‭Triggers are only spawned if this option is enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Equals/Larger/Smaller:‬‭This option will trigger "Target‬‭ID" if the Item ID is‬
‭equal, larger, or smaller respectively when the Trigger is reached.‬

‭Pickup‬
‭Pickup Triggers can be used to change the values of Item IDs.‬
‭●‬ ‭Item ID:‬‭The Item ID you want to check the value for.‬‭Place the "0" object‬
‭and click "Edit Special" to configure a unique Item ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Count:‬‭The number you want to increase the current‬‭Item ID value by. By‬
‭default, this will use addition. Check the options below for different‬
‭arithmetics.‬

‭101‬

‭●‬ ‭Override:‬‭The Item ID value will override the current value with the new‬
‭one instead of using addition.‬
‭●‬ ‭Multiply:‬‭Multiplies the previous value with your‬‭set modifier.‬
‭●‬ ‭Divide:‬‭Divides the previous value with your set modifier.‬‭Note that the‬
‭Item ID will drop all numbers after the decimal point. For example,‬
‭dividing a value of 5 by 2 will result in 2 instead of 2.5, since the 0.5 is‬
‭dropped.‬

‭Time‬
‭Time Triggers function as an in-game Timer. In-game Timers use Item IDs to‬
‭work.‬
‭●‬ ‭StartTime/StopTime:‬‭The time you want the Timer to‬‭start and stop at‬
‭respectively. Note that you have to enable the checkbox to the right of‬
‭"StopTime" for the time to actually stop. If"StopTime" is lower than‬
‭"StartTime", "StopTime" will be ignored.‬
‭●‬ ‭ItemID:‬‭The Item ID you want to use as a Timer. Place‬‭the "0" object and‬
‭click "Edit Special" to configure a unique Item ID. Note that you have to set‬
‭the Item ID to "Time Counter" in the "Edit Special" page of the Item ID for‬
‭this Trigger to work.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetID:‬‭The Group ID you want to spawn when "StopTime"‬‭is hit. Note‬
‭that you actually have to stop the time at the "StopTime" to enable the‬
‭Group ID. In other words, you have to enable the checkbox to the right of‬
‭the "StopTime" option.‬
‭●‬ ‭TimeMod:‬‭Modifies the Timer. The number you input‬‭here will be‬
‭multiplied with the normal Timer, resulting in the time going quicker if the‬
‭value is above 1 and slower if it is below 1.‬
‭●‬ ‭Ignore TimeWarp:‬‭Using a‬‭TimeWarp Trigger‬‭will also‬‭slow down or speed‬
‭up the Timer. Enabling this option makes the time behave the same.‬
‭102‬

‭●‬ ‭StartPaused:‬‭The Timer will display your "StartTime", but it will not start‬
‭until activated by a different Time Trigger or a‬‭Time‬‭Control Trigger‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dont Override:‬‭Time Triggers with this option enabled‬‭will only affect the‬
‭Timer if it is at 0.00 or has the "StartPaused" option enabled. If the Timer is‬
‭currently counting, the Triggers will not change the value.‬

‭Time Event‬
‭Time Event Triggers spawn a Group ID if a specific time is hit in the Timer.‬
‭Unlike the "TargetID" in the‬‭Time Trigger‬‭, the Timer‬‭does not have to stop at‬
‭this value to Trigger it.‬
‭●‬ ‭ItemID:‬‭The Item ID you want to use as a Timer. Place‬‭the "0" object and‬
‭click "Edit Special" to configure a unique Item ID. Note that you have to set‬
‭the Item ID to "Time Counter" in the "Edit Special" page of the Item ID for‬
‭this Trigger to work.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetID:‬‭The Group ID you want to spawn when "TargetTime"‬‭is hit‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetTime:‬‭The time at which you want to spawn "TargetID".‬
‭●‬ ‭Multi Activate:‬‭The Triggers can spawn again if the‬‭"TargetTime" is hit‬
‭several times.‬

‭Time Control‬
‭Time Control Triggers can start and stop a Timer.‬
‭●‬ ‭ItemID:‬‭The Item ID you want to use as a Timer. Place‬‭the "0" object and‬
‭click "Edit Special" to configure a unique Item ID. Note that you have to set‬
‭the Item ID to "Time Counter" in the "Edit Special" page of the Item ID for‬
‭this Trigger to work.‬

‭103‬

‭Item Edit‬
‭This Trigger is used to edit an Item ID using two different Item IDs. You can do‬
‭many different operations with these two Item IDs. Note that Item Edit‬
‭Triggers are pretty complicated, so we suggest following along with your own‬
‭example.‬

‭●‬ ‭ItemID1/ItemID2:‬‭The Item IDs you want to use to do‬‭operations. Note that‬
‭depending on what option you have selected in the "Edit Special" menu in‬
‭the Item Trigger, you have to select the respective option from the menu‬
‭to the right of "ItemID1" and "ItemID2". For example, if "ItemID1" is a normal‬
‭Item ID, and "ItemID2" is a Timer, you would select the "Item" and "Timer"‬
‭options respectively. Place the "0" object and click "Edit Special" to‬
‭configure a unique Item ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target ItemID:‬‭The Item ID you want to edit. Note‬‭that depending on what‬
‭option you have selected in the "Edit Special" menu in the Item Trigger,‬
‭you have to select the respective option from the menu to the right of‬
‭"Target ItemID". Place the "0" object and click "Edit Special" to configure a‬
‭unique Item ID.‬

‭104‬

‭●‬ ‭Mod:‬‭Modifies the value that "ItemID1" and "ItemID2" produce. Leaving this‬
‭option at 1 will disable the third button, which is "•" in the picture below.‬

‭The three buttons in figure 7.26 correspond to how the numbers interact with‬
‭each other. We will explain what each one does, and then show some‬
‭examples for better understanding.‬
‭●‬ ‭The first button decides how the new values interact with the "Target‬
‭ItemID". If you set it to "=", the "Target ItemID" will use the new value. If you‬
‭set it to "+", the value will be added to the current value of the "Target‬
‭ItemID". Likewise, if you set it to "-", the value will be subtracted from the‬
‭current value. If you set it to "•" instead, the current value will be multiplied‬
‭with the value, while setting it to "/", divides the current value.‬
‭●‬ ‭The second button decides how "ItemID1" and "ItemID2" interact with each‬
‭other to calculate the value. If you set it to "+", "ItemID1" will be added to‬
‭"ItemID2". If you set it to "-", "ItemID2" will be subtracted from "ItemID1".‬
‭Similarly, if you set it to "•", "ItemID1" and "ItemID2" are multiplied, and with‬
‭"/", "ItemID1" will be divided by "ItemID2".‬
‭●‬ ‭The third button decides how the modifier interacts with the value that‬
‭"ItemID1" and "ItemID2" create. If you set it to "•", the value will be‬
‭multiplied with the modifier value. If you set it to "/", the value will be‬
‭divided by the modifier value.‬

‭105‬

‭To the right of these, there are two empty, optional buttons (figure 7.25),‬
‭which can be set to "N" or "A" for "neg" and "abs" respectively. In order, these‬
‭negate or find the absolute value of the number. Absolute value essentially‬
‭drops a negative sign and only uses positive values.‬

‭For our example, "ItemID1" has the value 8, "ItemID2" has the value 5, and‬
‭"Target ItemID" has the value 2. All values and operations are color coded for‬
‭convenience. As you can see, we selected "+" in the first box. This means that‬
‭the value will be added to the current value, indicated by the "I3 +" at the‬
‭bottom. In the second box, we selected "-", which means "ItemID2" will be‬
‭subtracted from "ItemID1", as indicated by "(I1 - I2)". Lastly, we set a modifier.‬
‭We chose "/" in the third box, which means that our value will be divided by‬
‭our modifier.‬

‭106‬

‭Lets replace the Item IDs with the values we chose to see what the result‬
‭should be. (Note that this is edited and cannot be achieved in normal‬
‭Geometry Dash.)‬

‭Doing the calculations, we get I3 = 2 + 3/2 = 2 + 1.5, which cannot be‬
‭represented due to how Geometry Dash rounds by default. Because of this,‬
‭the .5 is dropped and we are left with 2 + 1. Now our equation is I3 = 2 + 1 = 3,‬
‭which means the new value of our "Target ItemID" is 3.‬
‭Dropping of .5 may not be ideal in all cases. Luckily, we can fix this with the‬
‭"NA" buttons. The first "NA" button decides how the value you calculate is‬
‭handled. To use our example, this button decides how decimals are handled‬
‭for (8 - 5) / 2.000. The second "NA" decides how the new value is handled by‬
‭the "Target ItemID", so I3 in our example. Here are all the options you can set‬
‭and how they behave.‬
‭●‬ ‭NA:‬‭The default way Geometry Dash handles the numbers.‬‭Using this‬
‭mode will drop all decimal points.‬
‭●‬ ‭RND:‬‭Rounds the number to the closest integer. If‬‭we take our example,‬
‭3/2 = 1.5 would be rounded to 2, which would mean our answer would be 4‬
‭instead of 3.‬
‭●‬ ‭FLR:‬‭Stands for floor function, which means it will‬‭always round down to‬
‭the next lower integer. For example, 4/5 = 0.8 would be rounded down to 0.‬
‭●‬ ‭CEI:‬‭Stands for ceiling function, which means it will‬‭always round up to the‬
‭next higher integer. For example 1/10 = 0.1 would be rounded up to 1.‬

‭107‬

‭Item Compare‬
‭This Trigger is used to compare two Item IDs and spawn Group IDs‬
‭depending on whether their condition is true or not. Item Compare Triggers‬
‭are pretty complicated, so we suggest following along with your own‬
‭example.‬

‭●‬ ‭ItemID1/ItemID2:‬‭The Item IDs you want to compare‬‭with each other. Note‬
‭that depending on what option you have selected in the "Edit Special"‬
‭menu in the Item Trigger, you have to select the respective option from‬
‭the menu to the right of "ItemID1" and "ItemID2". For example, if "ItemID1"‬
‭is a normal Item ID, and "ItemID2" is a Timer, you would select the "Item"‬
‭and "Timer" options respectively. Place the "0" object and click "Edit‬
‭Special" to configure a unique Item ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mod1/Mod2:‬‭Modifiers for "ItemID1" and "ItemID2" respectively.‬‭How the‬
‭modifier interacts with the values can be changed with the "•" buttons,‬
‭which is explained below.‬
‭●‬ ‭TrueID/FalseID:‬‭The IDs that will be spawned if your‬‭condition is true or‬
‭false respectively.‬

‭108‬

‭●‬ ‭Tol+-:‬‭The tolerance. For example, if you set 0.5 here and "ItemID1" is 1,‬
‭while "ItemID2" is 0.5, this would count as true despite "ItemID1" and‬
‭"ItemID2" not being equal.‬

‭The three buttons to the right decide how the values are compared, and how‬
‭the modifiers interact with them. The first box decides the operation for‬
‭"ItemID1" and "Mod1", the second box decides the operation for "ItemID2" and‬
‭"Mod2", and the third box decides how the two values are compared to each‬
‭other.‬
‭For the first and second box, you can select the following options:‬
‭●‬ ‭"+" means that the corresponding modifier will be added to the Item ID‬
‭value.‬
‭●‬ ‭"-" means that the corresponding modifier will be subtracted from the‬
‭Item ID value.‬
‭●‬ ‭"•" means that the corresponding modifier will be multiplied with the Item‬
‭ID value.‬
‭●‬ ‭"/" means that‬‭the Item ID value will be divided by‬‭the corresponding‬
‭modifier.‬

‭109‬

‭For the third box, you can select the following options:‬
‭●‬ ‭"==" will return true if "ItemID1" is equal to "ItemID2".‬
‭●‬ ‭">" will return true if "ItemID1" is larger than "ItemID2".‬
‭●‬ ‭">=" will return true if "ItemID1" is larger than or equal to "ItemID2".‬
‭●‬ ‭"<" will return true if "ItemID1" is smaller than "ItemID2".‬
‭●‬ ‭"<=" will return true if "ItemID1" is smaller than or equal to "ItemID2".‬
‭The first "NA" decides how the left side of the equation is handled, so‬
‭"ItemID1" and "Mod1". The second "NA" decides how the right side of the‬
‭equation is handled, so "ItemID2" and "Mod2". Here are all the options you can‬
‭set and how they behave.‬
‭●‬ ‭NA:‬‭The default way Geometry Dash handles the numbers.‬‭Using this‬
‭mode will drop all decimal points.‬
‭●‬ ‭RND:‬‭Rounds the number to the closest integer. If‬‭we take our example,‬
‭3/2 = 1.5 would be rounded to 2, which would mean our answer would be 4‬
‭instead of 3.‬
‭●‬ ‭FLR:‬‭Stands for floor function, which means it will‬‭always round down to‬
‭the next lower integer. For example, 4/5 = 0.8 would be rounded down to 0.‬
‭●‬ ‭CEI:‬‭Stands for ceiling function, which means it will‬‭always round up to the‬
‭next higher integer. For example 1/10 = 0.1 would be rounded up to 1.‬

‭110‬

‭Persistent Item‬
‭This Trigger marks Item IDs as persistent. Persistent Item IDs do not get reset‬
‭when you die. However, they are reset when you exit the level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Item ID:‬‭The Item ID you want to mark as persistent.‬‭Note that if your Item‬
‭ID is a Timer, you have to select the "Timer" option to the right of "Item ID".‬
‭●‬ ‭Persistent:‬‭Marks the ID as persistent, so the value‬‭will not be reset upon‬
‭death.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetAll:‬‭Targets all persistent Item IDs at once.‬
‭●‬ ‭Reset:‬‭Resets the Item ID to 0.‬

‭Random‬
‭Randomly triggers one of two Group IDs.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID 1/Group ID 2:‬‭The two Group IDs that can‬‭be triggered.‬
‭●‬ ‭Chance %:‬‭The chance that "Group ID 1" is triggered.‬‭For example, if this is‬
‭set to 80, "Group ID 1" has an 80% chance of being triggered, while "Group‬
‭ID 2" has a chance of 100% - 80% = 20%.‬

‭Advanced Random‬
‭Randomly triggers one of up to 10 Group IDs.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The Group ID you want to have a chance of‬‭being triggered.‬
‭●‬ ‭Chance:‬‭How likely it is for this Group ID to be triggered.‬‭The way the odds‬
‭are calculated is by multiplying the "Chance" value by 100, and then‬
‭dividing it by the sum of all "Chance" values so far and the one you are‬
‭about to add.‬

‭111‬

‭For example, if you add Group ID 1 with a "Chance" of 20, and then add Group‬
‭ID 2 with a "Chance" of 50, the odds will be calculated as follows. "Chance" of‬
‭Group ID 2, 50, is multiplied by 100, resulting in 5000. Afterwards, it is divided‬
‭by both the "Chance" of Group ID 1 and 2, so 5000 / 70 ≈ 71%. This is the odds‬
‭Group ID 2 will have, while Group ID 1 will have odds of (20 * 100) / 70 ≈ 29%. If‬
‭you were to add Group ID 3 with "Chance" at 60, the odds would change to‬
‭(20 * 100) / 130 ≈ 15% for Group ID 1, (50 * 100) / 130 ≈ 38% for Group ID 2, and‬
‭(60 * 100) / 130 ≈ 46% for Group ID 3.‬

‭Sequence‬
‭The Sequence Trigger is used to spawn a sequence of Triggers. Every time the‬
‭Trigger is triggered, it will advance one step further in the sequence.‬

‭●‬ ‭GroupID/Count:‬‭The Group ID you want to spawn, with‬‭"Count" being how‬
‭often you want to spawn it.‬
‭●‬ ‭MinInt:‬‭Minimum interval that has to pass before you‬‭can activate the next‬
‭step in the sequence.‬

‭112‬

‭●‬ ‭Reset:‬‭If set to 0, this option is ignored. If the Trigger is not triggered for‬
‭the duration you input here, it will stop the sequence and start from the‬
‭beginning again the next time you use it.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mode Stop:‬‭The sequence stops once you reach the end.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mode Loop:‬‭The sequence starts from the beginning‬‭again after you reach‬
‭the end.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mode Last:‬‭The sequence will finish like normal, and‬‭after hitting the‬
‭Trigger again, only the last Group ID will be triggered every time.‬
‭●‬ ‭Reset Full:‬‭If the Trigger has not been triggered‬‭for the "Reset" time, the‬
‭Trigger will return to the first Group ID in the sequence.‬
‭●‬ ‭Reset Step:‬‭If the Trigger has not been triggered‬‭for the "Reset" time, the‬
‭sequence will go back to the Group ID before the current one.‬
‭For example, let us say you have a sequence of Group IDs 1, 2, 3, and 4, and‬
‭use "Reset Step" with a "Reset" time of 1 second. You trigger the first 4‬
‭sequences. If you do not activate the Trigger for 1 second, it will trigger Group‬
‭ID 3. If you do not activate the Trigger for 2 seconds, it will trigger Group ID 2.‬

‭Spawn Particle‬
‭Spawns particles at a specific place upon activating the Trigger. Note that the‬
‭particles you want to spawn cannot have an infinite duration, and that the‬
‭Trigger will spawn the particles once on activation and not loop like normal.‬
‭●‬ ‭Particle Group:‬‭Group of the particles you want to‬‭spawn at the "Position‬
‭Group".‬
‭●‬ ‭Position Group:‬‭Position at which the particles will‬‭spawn. The Group ID‬
‭can only consist of one object.‬
‭●‬ ‭PosVarX/PosVarY:‬‭Position variance. The values you‬‭put into here are‬
‭extended to left and right for "PosVarX", and up and down for "PosVarY".‬
‭113‬

‭The particles will spawn in a random location within the boundaries you‬
‭set here. Note that one block is equal to 30. See below for an example.‬

‭Reset‬
‭Resets‬‭Collectables‬‭and the checkpoint object. Objects‬‭will appear again‬
‭when this Trigger is activated and can be collected again.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭Group ID of the objects you want to reset.‬

‭Zoom‬
‭Zooms the camera. The center point for the zoom is the camera center.‬
‭●‬ ‭Zoom:‬‭The value you want to zoom to. If you want to‬‭return to the default‬
‭state, leave this value at 1.000.‬
‭●‬ ‭Time:‬‭The duration in which the zoom should happen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the objects‬‭start and end their‬
‭movement.‬

‭114‬

‭Static Camera‬
‭Uses a Target Group ID as the center of the screen and locks to that object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Group ID:‬‭The Group ID that should be seen‬‭as the camera center.‬
‭Can only consist of a single object.‬
‭●‬ ‭X Only/Y Only:‬‭The camera only takes the object's‬‭X or Y position as the‬
‭camera X or Y center respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Follow:‬‭Follows the movement of the object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Adds an easing duration when following an‬‭object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Smooth Velocity:‬‭Reacts to player velocity and tries‬‭to move the camera‬
‭smoothly to where you want. The path is calculated by using a Bézier‬
‭curve.‬
‭●‬ ‭Modifier:‬‭Shifts the Bézier curve for the "Smooth‬‭Velocity" option.‬
‭●‬ ‭Exit Static:‬‭Exits the static mode and returns to‬‭the default camera‬
‭location.‬
‭●‬ ‭Exit Instant:‬‭The camera instantly snaps back to the‬‭default camera‬
‭location when using "Exit Static".‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭The duration for the camera to reach the‬‭object.‬

‭Camera Offset‬
‭Offsets the camera center.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset X:‬‭Moves the camera center along the X-axis.‬‭One block is equal to‬
‭10. Input a positive number to move to the right, and input a negative one‬
‭to move to the left.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset Y:‬‭Moves the camera center along the Y-axis.‬‭One block is equal to‬
‭10. Input a positive number to move up, and input a negative one to move‬
‭down.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Time:‬‭The duration for the camera to finish offsetting.‬
‭115‬

‭Gameplay Offset‬
‭Offsets the player by 2.5 blocks to the right, putting them in the X-axis center‬
‭of the screen (assuming no other camera modifications have been made).‬
‭Note that the movement is always 2.5 blocks (or 75 steps) no matter what‬
‭camera offset or zoom you have.‬

‭Camera Rotation‬
‭Rotates the camera.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Time:‬‭How long it should take to reach the rotation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Degrees:‬‭Rotation you want to have. Enter a positive‬‭value to rotate‬
‭clockwise, and enter a negative one to rotate counter-clockwise. Leave this‬
‭at 0 to return to the default rotation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Changes the way the objects start and end‬‭their movement.‬

‭Camera Edge‬
‭Sets edges for the camera. If the edge is within the current screen, it will‬
‭either snap for the object to be at the edge or ignore it until the object is‬
‭outside the screen, depending on the zoom level. The camera edge will adjust‬
‭with the movement of the edge objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target ID:‬‭The Group ID you want to set as the edge.‬‭It can only consist of‬
‭a single object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Left/Right/Up/Down:‬‭Defines what kind of edge it is.‬‭Enabling left would‬
‭set the object as the left edge of the screen, while down would set it at the‬
‭bottom edge of the screen, and so on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Unlock:‬‭Press this button to return to the default‬‭state. You can also just‬
‭leave "Target ID" at 0.‬

‭116‬

‭Camera Guide‬
‭Does not serve any other purpose besides functioning as a guide to see the‬
‭camera edges of different zooms. Can also be used as the "Target Group" for‬
‭the‬‭Static Camera Trigger‬‭to always have a good understanding‬‭of what the‬
‭screen will look like.‬
‭●‬ ‭Zoom:‬‭The zoom level you want to display. If you want‬‭to return to the‬
‭default state, leave this value at 1.000.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset X:‬‭Moves the outlines along the X-axis. One‬‭block is equal to 30.‬
‭Input a positive number to move to the right, and input a negative one to‬
‭move to the left.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset Y:‬‭Moves the outlines along the Y-axis. One‬‭block is equal to 10.‬
‭Input a positive number to move up, and input a negative one to move‬
‭down.‬

‭Reverse‬
‭Reverses the player direction in Classic levels. Does not do anything in‬
‭Platformer.‬

‭Rotate Gameplay‬
‭Rotates the gameplay (not the camera) in the direction the arrow points. The‬
‭line that is below the arrow indicates the gravity.‬
‭The Rotate Gameplay Trigger direction determines how the Channel’s‬
‭Triggers are sorted. For example, if the Rotate Gameplay Trigger points up,‬
‭Triggers with a smaller Y value are triggered first, and higher ones later. If the‬
‭Trigger points right, Triggers with a smaller X value are triggered first and‬
‭higher ones later, and so on. See‬‭Channel System‬‭for‬‭more information.‬

‭117‬

‭●‬ ‭Keep Velocity:‬‭Keeps the velocity the player has before the gameplay‬
‭rotation and smoothly transitions it to the new gravity. Results in smoother‬
‭movement overall.‬
‭●‬ ‭Change Channel:‬‭Changes the Channel to the number‬‭you have entered‬
‭in the number box at the bottom.‬
‭●‬ ‭Channel Only:‬‭Only changes the Channel and does not‬‭update the‬
‭gameplay rotation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Instant Offset:‬‭The camera updates instantly when‬‭switching gameplay to‬
‭the opposite direction.‬

‭Song‬
‭Changes the song in the middle of a level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Channel:‬‭There are 5 Channels on which a song can‬‭play. Songs on‬
‭different Channels will play simultaneously, while only one song can play‬
‭on the same Channel. Note that Channels used for music are not the same‬
‭as Color Channels or the ones mentioned for‬‭Rotate‬‭Gameplay Triggers‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start/End:‬‭The time (in milliseconds) at which you‬‭want the song to start‬
‭and end.‬
‭●‬ ‭Fade In/Fade Out:‬‭The time (in milliseconds) at which‬‭the song should‬
‭fade in and out.‬
‭●‬ ‭Prep/Load Prep:‬‭Setting a song time introduces some‬‭delay depending‬
‭on the seek time. If you need the song to sync precisely, you first have to‬
‭"Prep" the Trigger, then "Load Prep" later. "Prep" overwrites any previous‬
‭"Prep", so if you have multiple Song Triggers, you have to alternate‬
‭between loading them. For example, "Prep" and "Load Prep" for the first,‬
‭"Prep" and "Load Prep" for the second, and so on.‬

‭118‬

‭Edit Song‬
‭Edits attributes of a song, such as volume, speed and also allows for proximity‬
‭options.‬
‭●‬ ‭Channel:‬‭The Channel you want to edit the song of.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it should take for the song to‬‭change to the new‬
‭settings.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭Changes the speed of the song. Note that you‬‭have to enable the‬
‭"Change Speed" button for the speed to actually change.‬
‭●‬ ‭Volume:‬‭Changes the volume of the song. Note that‬‭you have to enable‬
‭the "Change Volume" button for the speed to actually change.‬
‭●‬ ‭Stop/Stop Loop:‬‭"Stop" stops the song entirely, while‬‭"Stop Loop" stops the‬
‭looping of the song, so the song will stop the next time it reaches the end.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID 1:‬‭Used for proximity. This is the Group‬‭ID where the distance‬
‭should be drawn from.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID 2:‬‭Used for proximity. This is the Group‬‭ID the distance will be‬
‭measured to. For example, if your "MinDist" is 60, the "VolNear" volume will‬
‭be played when the Group ID is within 6 blocks of Group ID 1. Choosing‬
‭"P1", "P2", or "Cam" from the buttons below turns Group ID 2 into Player 1,‬
‭Player 2, or the camera center respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭VolNear/VolMed/VolFar:‬‭Volume near, medium, and far‬‭away for‬
‭proximity. "VolNear" means you are within the "MinDist" boundaries from‬
‭Group ID 1, while "VolMed" refers to "Dist2" and "VolFar" to "Dist3".‬
‭●‬ ‭MinDist/Dist2/Dist3:‬‭Sets the boundaries for "VolNear",‬‭"VolMed", and‬
‭"VolFar" respectively. Below is an example with "MinDist" set to 30 and‬
‭both "Dist2" and "Dist3" set to 20. "MinDist" refers to the closest length and‬
‭is drawn in red, while "Dist2" refers to the middle length and is drawn in‬
‭green. Finally, "Dist3" refers to the furthest length and is drawn in blue. The‬
‭distances stack with each other. For example, if your "MinDist" is 20 and‬
‭119‬

‭your "Dist2" is 30, the "Dist2" circle will be drawn 5 blocks from the object in‬
‭Group ID 1, and not 3 blocks.‬

‭The various arrow buttons indicate how proximity is handled. Here are all‬
‭options and how their sound is drawn. The distance options will be drawn‬
‭from the Group ID 2 object (in this case Player 1) towards the arrow direction.‬
‭In these examples, black is equal to the highest volume and gray is equal to‬
‭the lowest.‬

‭120‬

‭Table 7.2: Proximity buttons.‬

‭121‬

‭122‬

‭SFX‬
‭You can choose a sound effect (SFX) to play from the menu in the top right of‬
‭the first page.‬
‭●‬ ‭Reverb:‬‭Reverb is created when a sound occurs in a‬‭space, resulting in the‬
‭SFX changing pitch and echo accordingly. By clicking the "+" button, you‬
‭can select different spaces for the SFX to occur in.‬
‭●‬ ‭FFT:‬‭Stands for fast Fourier transform. "FFT" is used‬‭to determine the‬
‭fundamental frequencies and therefore pitches that are present in the raw‬
‭signal.‬
‭●‬ ‭Loop:‬‭Loops the SFX until stopped.‬
‭●‬ ‭Pre Load:‬‭Setting a start time introduces some delay‬‭depending on the‬
‭seek time. If you need the SFX to sync precisely, you can preload it.‬
‭●‬ ‭Start/End:‬‭Start and end of the SFX in milliseconds.‬
‭●‬ ‭FadeIn/FadeOut:‬‭Fades the SFX in and out respectively,‬‭with the values‬
‭being in milliseconds.‬

‭123‬

‭●‬ ‭Unique ID:‬‭Assigns a unique ID to SFX within their respective "SFXGroup".‬
‭By enabling the "IsUnique" option, you mark the ID as unique, resulting in‬
‭no other SFX being able to take that ID if it is in the same "SFXGroup".‬
‭●‬ ‭SFXGroup:‬‭You can have several SFX and put them into‬‭their own‬
‭"SFXGroup". This Group ID can later be edited.‬
‭●‬ ‭MinInterval:‬‭Minimum interval before the SFX can be‬‭triggered again.‬
‭●‬ ‭Override:‬‭If another SFX has the same "Unique ID"‬‭and "SFXGroup", this‬
‭new SFX will override the old one.‬
‭●‬ ‭Ignore Volume Test:‬‭SFX played at volume 0 are ignored.‬‭Enable this‬
‭option to not ignore them. This is mainly used for the proximity options,‬
‭where the sound will not play if any distance has a volume of 0.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID 1:‬‭Used for proximity. This is the Group‬‭ID where the distance‬
‭should be drawn from.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID 2:‬‭Used for proximity. This is the Group‬‭ID the distance will be‬
‭measured to. For example, if your "MinDist" is 60, the "VolNear" volume will‬
‭be played when the Group ID is within 6 blocks of Group ID 1. Choosing‬
‭"P1", "P2", or "Cam" from the buttons below turns Group ID 2 into Player 1,‬
‭Player 2, or the camera center respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭VolNear/VolMed/VolFar:‬‭Volume near, medium, and far‬‭away for‬
‭proximity. "VolNear" means you are within the "MinDist" boundaries from‬
‭Group ID 1, while "VolMed" refers to "Dist2" and "VolFar" to "Dist3".‬
‭●‬ ‭MinDist/Dist2/Dist3:‬‭Sets the boundaries for "VolNear",‬‭"VolMed", and‬
‭"VolFar" respectively.‬
‭See figure 7.33 and table 7.2 under‬‭Edit Song Trigger‬‭for more information on‬
‭proximity.‬

‭124‬

‭Edit SFX‬
‭Edits attributes of a sound effect (SFX), such as volume, speed and also allows‬
‭setting up proximity options.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭You can give the SFX Triggers you want to‬‭edit a Group ID and‬
‭change them through this field.‬
‭●‬ ‭SFXGroup/UniqueID: "‬‭SFXGroup" and "UniqueID" can be‬‭used to reference‬
‭the exact SFX you want to edit. You should put the same values you put‬
‭into the SFX Trigger here.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it should take for the song to‬‭change to the new‬
‭settings.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭Changes the speed of the song. Note that you‬‭have to enable the‬
‭"Change Speed" button for the speed to actually change.‬
‭●‬ ‭Volume:‬‭Changes the volume of the song. Note that‬‭you have to enable‬
‭the "Change Volume" button for the speed to actually change.‬
‭●‬ ‭Stop/Stop Loop:‬‭"Stop" stops the song, "Stop Loop"‬‭stops the looping of‬
‭the song, so the song will stop the next time it reaches the end.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID 1:‬‭Used for proximity. This is the Group‬‭ID where the distance‬
‭should be drawn from.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID 2:‬‭Used for proximity. This is the Group‬‭ID the distance will be‬
‭measured to. For example, if your "MinDist" is 60, the "VolNear" volume will‬
‭be played when the Group ID is within 6 blocks of Group ID 1. Choosing‬
‭"P1", "P2", or "Cam" from the buttons below turns Group ID 2 into Player 1,‬
‭Player 2, or the camera center respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭VolNear/VolMed/VolFar:‬‭Volume near, medium, and far‬‭away for‬
‭proximity. "VolNear" means you are within the "MinDist" boundaries from‬
‭Group ID 1, while "VolMed" refers to "Dist2" and "VolFar" to "Dist3".‬
‭●‬ ‭MinDist/Dist2/Dist3:‬‭Sets the boundaries for "VolNear",‬‭"VolMed", and‬
‭"VolFar" respectively.‬
‭125‬

‭See figure 7.33 and table 7.2 under‬‭Edit Song Trigger‬‭for more information on‬
‭proximity.‬

‭Event‬
‭Spawns a Group ID upon a player action. The action can be selected from the‬
‭top right menu.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The Group ID that is spawned when the player‬‭does the action.‬
‭●‬ ‭Extra ID/Extra ID2:‬‭You can input a Material ID here‬‭for the action to only‬
‭apply if you are on that Material ID. For example, if you choose "Normal‬
‭Landing" and enter a Material ID used for a specific a block, you will only‬
‭activate the Group ID if you land on that block.‬

‭TimeWarp‬
‭Speeds up or slows down time. This affects everything, including player‬
‭movement, durations in Triggers, Timers, and so on..‬
‭●‬ ‭TimeMod:‬‭Modifier for the time. The value you input‬‭here will be‬
‭multiplied with the normal time, so less than 1 will slow the time down and‬
‭above 1 will speed time up.‬

‭126‬

‭Camera Mode‬
‭Allows switching between Free Mode and Normal Mode for camera. In Free‬
‭Mode, the borders for Ship, Ball, UFO, Wave, Spider, and Swing are removed.‬
‭●‬ ‭Edit Camera Settings:‬‭Allows you to edit how the camera‬‭follows the‬
‭player in Free Mode. "Easing" changes how the camera starts and ends its‬
‭movement, while "Padding" modifies how close the player has to be to the‬
‭top or bottom of the screen for the camera to start following.‬
‭●‬ ‭Disable GridSnap:‬‭Normally the camera center will‬‭snap to the closest grid‬
‭space. With this option enabled, the snapping will not happen.‬

‭Setup MG‬
‭Moves the Middleground.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset Y:‬‭Moves the Middleground up or down. Input‬‭a positive value to‬
‭move it up, and enter a negative value to move it down.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the Middleground‬‭starts and ends‬
‭its movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Move Time:‬‭Duration until the Middleground finishes‬‭its movement.‬

‭BG/MG Speed‬
‭Modifies the speed at which the Background and Middleground follow the‬
‭player.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mod X/Mod Y:‬‭Modifies the X-axis speed and Y-axis‬‭speed respectively. The‬
‭value you input here will be multiplied with the default speed, with 0‬
‭stopping the movement entirely.‬

‭127‬

‭Counter Label‬
‭Displays Item IDs, Timers, or Points.‬
‭●‬ ‭ItemID:‬‭The Item ID that should be displayed. The‬‭value of Item IDs can be‬
‭changed with‬‭Pickup Triggers‬‭,‬‭Time Triggers‬‭or‬‭Collectables‬‭depending on‬
‭what option you choose.‬
‭●‬ ‭Time Counter:‬‭Functions as a Timer. You need a‬‭Time‬‭Trigger‬‭to use this‬
‭Timer.‬
‭●‬ ‭Seconds Only:‬‭The Timer only displays the seconds.‬
‭●‬ ‭MainTime:‬‭Also functions as a Timer that displays‬‭the exact game time.‬
‭●‬ ‭Points:‬‭Points can be configured in the "Edit Special"‬‭page of‬‭Collectables‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭Attempts:‬‭Displays the current attempt the player‬‭is on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Left Align/Right Align:‬‭Aligns the ID to the left‬‭or right border respectively.‬
‭The width will change depending on what value it has (for example 8 is‬
‭wider than 1). By default, the width will be extended the same to the left‬
‭and right. Choosing "Left Align", the width will expand only to the right,‬
‭while choosing "Right Align" will expand only to the left.‬

‭UI Settings‬
‭Marks objects as user interface and puts them on a UI layer which is in front of‬
‭everything else, including the Ground. The UI layer is permanent and cannot‬
‭be edited.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The objects that get marked as UI.‬
‭●‬ ‭UI Target:‬‭This Group ID is marked as the camera center‬‭reference and can‬
‭only consist of one object.‬
‭●‬ ‭XRef/YRef:‬‭The reference points for aligning the object.‬

‭128‬

‭●‬ ‭Auto/Center/Left/Right/Top/Bottom:‬‭"Auto" aligns objects based on the‬
‭camera edges of the "UI Target" object. "Center" uses the center of the‬
‭object as the camera center. "Left" uses the object as the left edge of the‬
‭camera, while "Right" uses the object as the right edge of the camera.‬
‭Similarly, "Top" uses the object as the top edge of the camera, while‬
‭"Bottom" uses the object as the bottom edge of the camera.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative:‬‭The position of the UI will scale with the‬‭screen aspect ratio.‬

‭Visibility Link‬
‭This makes every object in a Group ID visible, as long as any of its objects are‬
‭on screen. It is useful for larger collection of blocks that go offscreen often.‬
‭Note that it cannot be toggled throughout the level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The objects you want to be fully visible.‬‭This is processed at‬
‭level load.‬
‭129‬

‭Collision‬
‭Spawns a Group ID when two‬‭Collision Blocks‬‭collide.‬‭One of the two blocks‬
‭must have the "Dynamic Block" activated.‬
‭●‬ ‭BlockA ID/BlockB ID:‬‭Groups of Block 1 and Block 2,‬‭one of which has to‬
‭have the "Dynamic Block" option enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target ID:‬‭The Group ID that gets spawned when the‬‭blocks collide.‬
‭●‬ ‭P1/P2/PP:‬‭Enabling "P1" or "P2" allows triggering‬‭upon Player 1 or 2‬
‭colliding with "BlockB ID" respectively. Enabling both options allows for‬
‭triggering when either player collides with it. "PP" triggers the Group ID‬
‭when both players collide with each other in Dual Mode.‬
‭●‬ ‭Activate Group:‬‭Activates the Group ID. By default,‬‭the Group ID will be‬
‭toggled off. Enable this option if you want to spawn a Group ID or toggle‬
‭an object on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Trigger On Exit:‬‭The Group ID will be triggered when‬‭the blocks do not‬
‭collide anymore.‬

‭Instant Collision‬
‭Instant Collision Triggers function similarly to Collision Triggers, however it is‬
‭only checked on Trigger activation if the condition is true or false. Normal‬
‭Collision Triggers check if the condition is true all the time.‬
‭●‬ ‭BlockA ID/BlockB ID:‬‭Groups of Block 1 and Block 2,‬‭one of which has to‬
‭have the "Dynamic Block" option enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭True ID/False ID:‬‭The Group ID that gets spawned if‬‭"BlockA ID" and‬
‭"BlockB ID" collide or do not collide respectively in the moment the Trigger‬
‭is activated.‬

‭130‬

‭●‬ ‭P1/P2/PP:‬‭Enabling "P1" or "P2" allows triggering upon Player 1 or 2‬
‭colliding with "BlockB ID" respectively. Enabling both options allows for‬
‭triggering when either player collides with it. "PP" triggers the Group ID‬
‭when both players collide with each other in Dual Mode.‬

‭Collision State‬
‭Spawns a Group ID when the player enters and exits the block hitbox.‬
‭Functions as a quicker alternative to‬‭Collision Blocks‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭State On/State Off:‬‭The Group ID that is spawned if‬‭the player is colliding‬
‭with the Collision State hitbox or not colliding respectively.‬

‭Collision Block‬
‭The blocks used for (Instant) Collision Triggers. If you want two blocks to‬
‭collide, you will have to mark one of them as "Dynamic".‬

‭Player Touch‬
‭Toggles or spawns a Group ID if the player clicks while within the block hitbox.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The Group ID that gets spawned or toggled‬‭when the Trigger‬
‭gets activated.‬
‭●‬ ‭Activate Group:‬‭Activates the Group ID. By default,‬‭the Group ID will be‬
‭toggled off. Enable this option if you want to spawn a Group ID or toggle‬
‭an object on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Claim Touch:‬‭The player will not jump and no rings‬‭will spawn. The click‬
‭can not be buffered.‬
‭●‬ ‭Spawn Only:‬‭Clicking only spawns the Group ID and‬‭does not toggle it on‬
‭or off.‬

‭131‬

‭●‬ ‭NO Multi Activate:‬‭By default, the Group ID will be toggled or spawned‬
‭every time you click within the hitbox. With this option enabled, you can‬
‭only toggle or spawn it once.‬

‭On Death‬
‭Toggles or spawns a Group ID when the player dies.‬
‭●‬ ‭Group ID:‬‭The Group ID that gets spawned or toggled‬‭when the player‬
‭dies.‬
‭●‬ ‭Activate Group:‬‭Activates the Group ID. By default,‬‭the Group ID will be‬
‭toggled off. Enable this option if you want to spawn a Group ID or toggle‬
‭an object on.‬

‭Disable/Enable Trail‬
‭Disables and enables the player trail respectively.‬

‭Show/Hide‬
‭Shows and hides the player respectively. Hiding the player makes it invisible,‬
‭but note that you can still see the trail if enabled.‬

‭132‬

‭BG Effect On/Off‬
‭Enables and disables the background particles in Ship, Ball, UFO, Wave.‬

‭End‬
‭Marks an object as the end of the level. The player gets pulled towards it. This‬
‭Trigger can be used in both Classic and Platformer levels.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetPos:‬‭The Group ID of the object that should‬‭be considered as the‬
‭position for the end. The Group ID can only consist of one object.‬
‭●‬ ‭SpawnID:‬‭A Group ID that gets spawned when the player‬‭reaches the end.‬
‭This is optional.‬
‭●‬ ‭Instant:‬‭The player will teleport to the end as soon‬‭as the object is on‬
‭screen instead of slowly jumping towards it.‬
‭●‬ ‭No Effects:‬‭Disables the effects that play when you‬‭reach the end, such as‬
‭the effect lines.‬
‭●‬ ‭No SFX:‬‭Disables the SFX that plays when you reach‬‭the end.‬

‭133‬

‭Player Control‬
‭Controls behavior of the player.‬
‭●‬ ‭P1/P2:‬‭What player you want to control. Both options‬‭enabled or disabled‬
‭results in both players being affected.‬
‭●‬ ‭Stop Jump:‬‭Stops the player jumping.‬
‭●‬ ‭Stop Move:‬‭Stops the player movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Stop Rot:‬‭Stops the player rotation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Stop Slide:‬‭Stops the low friction state you are in‬‭after being launched by a‬
‭force block. It does not stop the sliding from slopes or ice blocks.‬

‭Options‬
‭Several options to change attributes of the level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Streak Additive:‬‭Changes the trail and particles to‬‭be blending.‬

‭●‬ ‭Unlink Dual Gravity:‬‭Unlinks the gravity of the icons‬‭in Dual Mode. By‬
‭default, if one icon switches gravity, the other icon will switch gravity as‬
‭well.‬
‭●‬ ‭Hide Ground/Hide MG:‬‭Makes the Ground and Middleground‬‭respectively‬
‭invisible.‬
‭●‬ ‭Hide P1/Hide P2:‬‭Hides Player 1 or Player 2 respectively.‬‭Functions the‬
‭same like the‬‭Hide Trigger‬‭.‬

‭134‬

‭●‬ ‭Disable P1 Controls/Disable P2 Controls:‬‭Disables all input for Player 1 or‬
‭Player 2 respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Hide Attempts:‬‭Hides the Attempts counter.‬

‭BPM Guide‬
‭Draws lines in the editor at beats per minute you configure. Helps to make‬
‭parts sync based on the BPM the song uses.‬
‭●‬ ‭BPM:‬‭Stands for beats per minute. Lines will be drawn‬‭based on this‬
‭number. For example, if you have 60 BPM, a line will be drawn every‬
‭second.‬
‭●‬ ‭BPB:‬‭Stands for beats per bar. One bar is the space‬‭between two BPM‬
‭lines. The number you input here will split each space into the‬
‭corresponding sections. For example, if you have a BPM of 60 and a BPB of‬
‭2, a line will be drawn every 0.5 seconds.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long you want the lines to be drawn.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭Changes the distance between the lines to account‬‭for the‬
‭different speeds.‬
‭●‬ ‭Disable:‬‭Hides the lines.‬

‭Gradient‬
‭Creates a gradient between two colors. You can change the way the gradient‬
‭looks by rotating the Gradient Trigger.‬
‭●‬ ‭Vertex Mode:‬‭Draws the gradient between 3 or 4 points‬‭which get‬
‭connected. By default, the gradient can only be a square with defined top,‬
‭bottom, left, and right boundaries. Using "Vertex Mode" allows the gradient‬
‭to have more interesting shapes.‬

‭135‬

‭●‬ ‭U/D/L/R:‬‭Used to draw the gradient if "Vertex Mode" is disabled. The‬
‭variables refer to the Group IDs of target objects set as up, down, left, and‬
‭right respectively. These variables work as boundaries for the gradient, so‬
‭you do not have to set all.‬
‭●‬ ‭BL/BR/TL/TR:‬‭Used for the "Vertex Mode" boundaries.‬‭The variables refer to‬
‭the Group IDs of target objects set as bottom left, bottom right, top left,‬
‭and top right respectively. Note that putting 3 of those variables is enough‬
‭to draw the gradient in "Vertex Mode".‬
‭●‬ ‭Blending:‬‭How the gradient behaves with colors beneath‬‭it.‬
‭●‬ ‭ID:‬‭Can be used to reference gradients. For example‬‭if you want to disable‬
‭a gradient later on.‬
‭●‬ ‭Disable All:‬‭Disables all gradients. You can disable‬‭only a single gradient by‬
‭using its "ID" and choosing the "Disable" option.‬
‭●‬ ‭Preview Opacity:‬‭The opacity the gradient has in the‬‭editor preview.‬

‭Gravity‬
‭Changes the gravity force.‬
‭●‬ ‭Gravity:‬‭Modifies the gravity. A value below 1 makes‬‭the player lighter,‬
‭while a value above 1 makes the player heavier.‬
‭●‬ ‭P1/P2/PT:‬‭The gravity only affects Player 1 or Player‬‭2 respectively. "PT" only‬
‭affects the player that touches the Trigger.‬

‭136‬

‭Teleport‬
‭Teleports the player to a set location.‬

‭●‬ ‭Target GroupID‬‭: The Group ID the player teleports‬‭to. The Group ID can‬
‭only consist of one object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Gravity:‬‭The gravity the player should have after‬‭finishing the teleportation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Normal:‬‭Normal gravity after teleporting.‬
‭●‬ ‭Flipped:‬‭Flipped gravity after teleporting.‬
‭●‬ ‭Toggle:‬‭The gravity flips to the opposite, depending‬‭on what gravity you‬
‭are when teleporting. You flip from normal to flipped and from flipped to‬
‭normal.‬
‭●‬ ‭Smooth Ease:‬‭The camera follows smoothly to the new‬‭position of the‬
‭player.‬
‭●‬ ‭Save Offset:‬‭The offset the player has to the Trigger‬‭center when‬
‭activating it is saved and applied to the target object, resulting in a slightly‬
‭offset teleport.‬
‭●‬ ‭Ignore X/Ignore Y:‬‭Does not teleport on the X-axis‬‭or Y-axis respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Instant Camera:‬‭The camera instantly snaps to the‬‭new position.‬
‭137‬

‭●‬ ‭Snap Ground:‬‭The Ground snaps to the new position.‬
‭●‬ ‭Redirect Dash:‬‭Rotates Dash Orb effect to match teleport‬‭exit rotation.‬
‭Only for Platformer levels.‬
‭●‬ ‭Static Force:‬‭You exit the rotation based on the rotation‬‭of the target, with‬
‭a force applied.‬
‭●‬ ‭Force:‬‭The force the player should have when exiting‬‭the teleport. The‬
‭force is applied in the direction of the target object rotation.‬
‭●‬ ‭Redirect Force:‬‭The force the player should have when‬‭exiting the‬
‭teleport. The force is applied in the direction of the target object rotation‬
‭and an input force.‬
‭●‬ ‭Min/Max:‬‭Limits the exit force. If you leave this‬‭value at 0, no limit will be‬
‭set.‬
‭●‬ ‭Mod:‬‭Modifies the input force value. The speed you‬‭have will be this value‬
‭multiplied with the speed you have when teleporting.‬

‭Shader‬
‭Shader Triggers edit how the other Shader Triggers work. You can disable‬
‭shader effects and limit the layers they affect.‬
‭●‬ ‭Disable All:‬‭Disables all other shaders.‬
‭●‬ ‭No PP:‬‭Stands for no player particles. When using‬‭a shader which only‬
‭affects the player layer, the particles might look weird due to different‬
‭rendering. This option disables the shader from the particles.‬
‭With the buttons at the bottom, you can choose the layers affected by the‬
‭shaders. The blue buttons are the highest and lowest layer that will be‬
‭affected. The green buttons are the ones in between which will be affected,‬
‭and the gray ones will not be affected.‬

‭138‬

‭ShockWave‬
‭Creates a shockwave effect.‬

‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭The speed at which the shockwave will happen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Strength:‬‭How strong the shockwave is. The lower the‬‭value, the less‬
‭distorted objects get.‬
‭●‬ ‭Thickness:‬‭The "thickness" of each wave. The higher‬‭the value, the thicker‬
‭the wave will be.‬

‭139‬

‭●‬ ‭WaveW:‬‭Wave width. The higher the value, the less distorted it is.‬
‭●‬ ‭FadeIn/FadeOut:‬‭Fades the shockwave in and out. The‬‭higher the value,‬
‭the longer it takes to fade in or out respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭TimeOff:‬‭Time offset before the shockwave starts,‬‭with the value being in‬
‭seconds.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxSize:‬‭Modifies the max size of the wave. Leaving‬‭it at 0 will put it at the‬
‭max value. The value you put here will be multiplied with the wave size.‬
‭●‬ ‭Invert:‬‭Inverts the shockwave effect to go from outside‬‭to inside instead of‬
‭inside to outside.‬
‭●‬ ‭Inner:‬‭Size of the waves in the middle of the shockwave.‬‭Option only‬
‭available with "Invert" enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Outer:‬‭Size of the waves at the outside of the shockwave.‬‭Higher values‬
‭means it will take longer to reach the center. Option only available with‬
‭"Invert" enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target:‬‭Chooses a Group ID as the center of the shockwave.‬‭The Group ID‬
‭can only consist of one object.‬
‭●‬ ‭P1/P2:‬‭Makes Player 1 or Player 2, respectively, the‬‭center of the shockwave.‬
‭Option only available with "Target" enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Follow:‬‭Follows "Target". By default, it will only‬‭check the position of the‬
‭target when the Trigger is activated and spawn the shockwave there. With‬
‭this option enabled, the center will follow the target. Option only available‬
‭with "Target" enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative:‬‭The shockwave follows the screen movement.‬‭By default, it will‬
‭stay at the position it was triggered at.‬
‭●‬ ‭Screen OffX/Screen OffY:‬‭Offsets the center of the‬‭shockwave. Negative‬
‭numbers offset it to the left or bottom respectively, while positive numbers‬
‭offset it to the right or up respectively.‬

‭140‬

‭Shock Line‬
‭Creates a shock line effect.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭The speed at which the shockline will happen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Strength:‬‭How strong the shockline is. The lower the‬‭value, the less‬
‭distorted objects get.‬
‭●‬ ‭Thickness:‬‭The thickness of each line. The higher‬‭the value, the thicker the‬
‭wave will be.‬
‭●‬ ‭WaveW:‬‭Line width. The higher the value, the less‬‭distorted it is.‬
‭●‬ ‭FadeIn/FadeOut:‬‭Fades the shockline in and out. The‬‭higher the value, the‬
‭longer it takes to fade in or out respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭TimeOff:‬‭Time offset before the shockline starts with‬‭the value being in‬
‭seconds.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxSize:‬‭Modifies the max size of the line. Leaving‬‭it at 0 will put it at the‬
‭max value. The value you put here will be multiplied with the line size.‬
‭●‬ ‭Invert:‬‭Inverts the shockline. If considered in a‬‭3D perspective, the highs of‬
‭the line will become lows and the other way around.‬
‭●‬ ‭Flip:‬‭Flips the line to go from right to left instead‬‭of left to right.‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotate:‬‭Rotates the line to go from bottom to top‬‭instead of left to right.‬
‭●‬ ‭Dual:‬‭Creates two shock lines from the middle, which‬‭go to the left and‬
‭right respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target:‬‭Chooses a Group ID as the center of the shockline.‬‭The Group ID‬
‭can only consist of one object.‬
‭●‬ ‭P1/P2:‬‭Makes Player 1 or Player 2 respectively the‬‭center of the shockline.‬
‭Option only available with "Target" enabled.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative:‬‭The shockline follows the screen movement.‬‭By default, it will‬
‭stay at the position it was triggered at.‬

‭141‬

‭●‬ ‭Screen Off:‬‭Offsets the center of the shockline. Negative numbers offset it‬
‭to the left or bottom respectively, while positive numbers offset it to the‬
‭right or up respectively. Note that the directions depend on what option‬
‭you choose from the buttons above.‬

‭Glitch‬
‭Creates a glitch effect.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭Duration for the effect to last.‬
‭●‬ ‭Strength:‬‭Strength of the effect. All other values‬‭will be multiplied with the‬
‭strength and adjusted accordingly.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭Speed at which the glitch effects happen. The‬‭lower the value, the‬
‭slower the effects.‬
‭●‬ ‭SliceHeight:‬‭During the glitch effect the screen will‬‭be sliced, which refers‬
‭to the higher blocks getting offset on the X-axis.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxSliceXOff:‬‭Max offset on the X-axis that the objects‬‭can be sliced.‬
‭●‬ ‭MaxColXOff/MaxColYOff:‬‭Max distance offset for the‬‭color on the X-axis‬
‭and Y-axis respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Relative:‬‭The shockline follows the screen movement.‬‭By default, it will‬
‭stay at the position it was triggered at.‬

‭Chromatic‬
‭Chromatically splits the colors.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetX/TargetY:‬‭How far the colors will split on‬‭the X-axis and Y-axis‬
‭respectively. You have to enable the "Use X" and/or "Use Y" option for the‬
‭distance to apply.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it takes to finish the color splitting.‬

‭142‬

‭Chromatic Glitch‬
‭Chromatically splits the colors while adding a wave effect and glitch lines.‬
‭●‬ ‭Speed:‬‭Speed at which the wave effect happens.‬
‭●‬ ‭Strength:‬‭How big the waves are.‬
‭●‬ ‭LineThickness:‬‭Thickness of the glitch lines.‬
‭●‬ ‭LineStrength:‬‭Opacity of the glitch lines.‬
‭●‬ ‭RGBOff:‬‭How far the RGB values are offset.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long until the final state is reached.‬
‭●‬ ‭SegmentH:‬‭Height of a segment. A segment consists‬‭of one wave effect‬
‭and a glitch line.‬
‭●‬ ‭RelativePos:‬‭With this option enabled, the shape of‬‭the effect will stay in‬
‭place no matter the Y height. With it off, the effect will always stay in the‬
‭center of the screen.‬

‭143‬

‭Pixelate‬
‭Pixelates the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetX/TargetY:‬‭How much the screen will pixelate‬‭on the X-axis and‬
‭Y-axis respectively. You have to enable the "Use X" and/or "Use Y" option for‬
‭the distance to apply.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it takes to finish the color splitting.‬
‭●‬ ‭Snap Grid:‬‭Snaps the pixels to the grid. Without this‬‭option, the pixels will‬
‭smear a little when the player moves.‬

‭Lens Circle‬
‭Creates a lens circle.‬
‭●‬ ‭Size:‬‭Size of the circle. The smaller the number,‬‭the more closed the circle‬
‭is.‬
‭●‬ ‭Fade:‬‭How much the circle fades out. The smaller the‬‭number, the less‬
‭fade there is.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it takes for the circle to appear.‬‭The circle will zoom in‬
‭or out instead of fading in.‬
‭●‬ ‭Strength:‬‭Opacity of the lens circle.‬
‭●‬ ‭Screen OffX/Screen OffY:‬‭Offsets the center of the‬‭lens circle. Negative‬
‭numbers offset it to the left or bottom respectively, while positive numbers‬
‭offset it to the right or up respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭CenterID:‬‭Center of the lens circle. The Group ID‬‭can only consist of one‬
‭object.‬
‭●‬ ‭Tint Channel:‬‭Color Channel to use for the lens circle.‬‭It will be black by‬
‭default.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the circle starts‬‭and ends its‬
‭movement.‬
‭144‬

‭Radial Blur‬
‭Blurs the screen radially, so drawing a circle around the center with a given‬
‭radius.‬
‭●‬ ‭Size:‬‭Size of the blur. In other words, how much it‬‭is blurred per distance‬
‭from the center.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it takes until the final blur state‬‭is reached.‬
‭●‬ ‭Intensity:‬‭Opacity of the blur.‬
‭●‬ ‭Ref Channel:‬‭Uses a Color Channel to reference the‬‭fade color. By default,‬
‭the fade will go towards the Background Color.‬
‭Table 7.3: "Ref Channel" behavior.‬

‭No Ref Channel‬

‭Ref Channel‬

‭The red object has blur applied. As‬
‭you can see, the blur color fades‬
‭towards the Background Color,‬
‭which looks weird on a yellow‬
‭Background.‬

‭Here we set the yellow Color Channel‬
‭as the "Ref Channel", which makes‬
‭the blur fade towards yellow.‬

‭145‬

‭●‬ ‭Screen OffX/Screen OffY:‬‭Offsets the blur center. Negative numbers offset‬
‭it to the left or bottom respectively, while positive numbers offset it to the‬
‭right or up respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Fade:‬‭The smaller the fade value, the more blocks‬‭will blur out. You can‬
‭compare this setting to the "Fade" setting in the‬‭Lens Circle Trigger‬‭, where‬
‭it is easier to visualize.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the circle starts‬‭and ends its‬
‭movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target:‬‭Uses a Group ID as the center the blur from.‬‭The Group ID can only‬
‭consist of one object.‬
‭●‬ ‭EmptyOnly:‬‭The blur will only be drawn to pixels that‬‭are empty.‬
‭Table 7.4: "EmptyOnly" behavior.‬

‭Without EmptyOnly‬

‭With EmptyOnly‬

‭Motion Blur‬
‭Blurs objects based on the X-axis, Y-axis, or a Center Group ID.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetX/TargetY:‬‭Amount of blur that will be applied‬‭to the X-axis and‬
‭Y-axis respectively.‬

‭146‬

‭●‬ ‭Ref Channel:‬‭Uses a Color Channel to reference the fade color. By default‬
‭the fade will go towards the Background Color. See table 7.3.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it takes until the final blur state‬‭is reached.‬
‭●‬ ‭Fade:‬‭The smaller the fade value, the more blocks‬‭will blur out. You can‬
‭compare this setting to the "Fade" setting in the‬‭Lens Circle Trigger‬‭, where‬
‭it is easier to visualize.‬
‭●‬ ‭Follow Ease:‬‭Used for the "TargetID" option, which‬‭follows the object's or‬
‭player's movement to reference the blur. "Follow Ease" eases the‬
‭movement, resulting in less or more blur upon movement.‬
‭●‬ ‭Intensity:‬‭Opacity of the blur.‬
‭●‬ ‭DualDir:‬‭Blurs in both directions instead of only‬‭one. By default, "TargetX"‬
‭will only blur left and "TargetY" will only blur down.‬
‭●‬ ‭EmptyOnly:‬‭The blur will only be drawn to pixels that‬‭are empty. See table‬
‭7.4.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetID:‬‭Uses a Group ID or the player's movement‬‭as the reference for‬
‭the blur. If the Group ID or player does not move, there will be no blur. On‬
‭quick movements, there will be a lot of blur. If a Group ID is used, it can‬
‭only consist of one object.‬

‭Bulge‬
‭Bulges the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Bulge:‬‭How much the screen will bulge.‬
‭●‬ ‭Radius:‬‭How large the bulge circle is.‬
‭●‬ ‭Screen OffX/Screen OffY:‬‭Offsets the center of the‬‭bulge. Negative‬
‭numbers offset it to the left or bottom respectively, while positive numbers‬
‭offset it to the right or up respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it takes for the bulge to reach‬‭its final state. The bulge‬
‭will zoom in and out instead of fading in.‬
‭147‬

‭●‬ ‭Target:‬‭Uses a Group ID as the center the bulge zooms from. The Group ID‬
‭can only consist of one object.‬

‭Pinch‬
‭Pinches the screen. Works in the opposite way of the‬‭Bulge Trigger‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetX/TargetY:‬‭How much the screen gets pinched‬‭on the X-axis and‬
‭Y-axis respectively. The smaller the number, the smaller the pinch.‬
‭●‬ ‭Screen OffX/Screen OffY:‬‭Offsets the pinch center.‬‭Negative numbers‬
‭offset it to the left or bottom respectively, while positive numbers offset it‬
‭to the right or up respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Radius:‬‭The radius of the circle.‬
‭●‬ ‭Modifier:‬‭Modifies all values. All values will be‬‭multiplied with the value you‬
‭put here.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long it takes for the pinch to reach‬‭its final state. The pinch‬
‭will zoom in and out instead of fading in.‬

‭Gray Scale‬
‭Adds a grayscale filter to the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target:‬‭Percentage of grayscale that is applied. For‬‭example, with 0.5 the‬
‭screen will tint 50% gray.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long until the final grayscale state‬‭is reached.‬
‭●‬ ‭Tint Channel:‬‭Tints the screen in a Color Channel‬‭instead of gray.‬
‭●‬ ‭UseLum:‬‭Refers to luminosity, which is a different‬‭way to convert color to‬
‭grayscale. Luminosity forms a weighted average to account for human‬
‭perception. The formula for luminosity is 0.21*R + 0.72*G + 0.07*B.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the colors start‬‭and end their‬
‭transitions.‬
‭148‬

‭Sepia‬
‭Adds a sepia filter to the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target:‬‭Percentage of sepia that is applied. For example,‬‭with 0.5 the‬
‭screen will tint 50% sepia.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long until the final sepia state is‬‭reached.‬

‭Invert Color‬
‭Inverts the screen colors.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target:‬‭Percentage of how much color inversion will‬‭be applied. For‬
‭example, with 0.5 the screen will be 50% inverted.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long until the final state is reached.‬
‭●‬ ‭R/G/B:‬‭Percentage of the red, green, and blue value‬‭respectively. For‬
‭example, the color white has the RGB values 255, 255, 255. If you put the R‬
‭slider to 0.5, it will multiply 255 with 0.5, which is 127.5. Now, the new color‬
‭would be 127.5, 255, 255, which is a brighter blue color. Note that the color‬
‭values are inverted due to the Trigger.‬
‭●‬ ‭EditRGB:‬‭Allows editing the RGB values with the sliders‬‭above.‬
‭●‬ ‭TweenRGB:‬‭If you are in the inverted color state with‬‭EditRGB values, and‬
‭want to change to different RGB values the switch will be instant. With this‬
‭option enabled, they will transition smoothly to the new RGB you set.‬
‭●‬ ‭ClampRGB:‬‭Limits the values to 1 so that they cannot‬‭go past that value.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the colors start‬‭and end their‬
‭transitions.‬

‭149‬

‭Table 7.5: Example of Invert Color Trigger options.‬

‭"R/G/B" with 1, 1, 1‬

‭"R/G/B" with 2, 1, 1‬

‭"R/G/B" with 2, 1, 1 and‬
‭"ClampRGB"‬

‭Normal transition to the‬ T
‭ he transition to red will‬
‭The same result as‬
‭inverted color. Same‬
‭ e quicker, resulting in‬
b
‭using 1, 1, 1. The‬
‭with "EditRGB" enabled‬ ‭an overall red tint. Only‬ ‭transition is still quicker‬
‭or disabled.‬
‭with "EditRGB" enabled.‬
‭for the red color,‬
‭however the result is‬
‭not tinted. "ClampRGB"‬
‭limits the values‬
‭between 0 and 1.‬

‭Hue‬
‭Shifts the screen hue.‬
‭●‬ ‭Degrees:‬‭How many degrees the color should shift.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long until the final state is reached.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the colors start‬‭and end their‬
‭transitions.‬

‭150‬

‭Edit Color‬
‭Edits the color of the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭CR/CG/CB:‬‭Stands for color red, green and blue. Tints‬‭the screen in the‬
‭corresponding color, with 1 being no tint. The smaller the value, the more‬
‭of that color is used.‬
‭●‬ ‭BR/BG/BB:‬‭Brightness red, green and blue. Works like‬‭the "Brightness"‬
‭slider in the "HSV" menu when editing colors.‬

‭Split Screen‬
‭Splits the screen in identical sections.‬
‭●‬ ‭TargetX/TargetY:‬‭How many sections the screen gets‬‭split in the X-axis‬
‭and Y-axis respectively. The number you input here gets one more added,‬
‭so with "TargetX" at 1 you split the screen in 2 sections. You have to enable‬
‭the "Use X" and/or "Use Y" option respectively to split the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Duration:‬‭How long until the final state is reached.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Easing options change the way the movements‬‭start and end‬
‭their transitions.‬

‭Enter Effects‬
‭Changes how blocks enter and/or exit the screen.‬
‭●‬ ‭Target Enter Channel:‬‭Input a Enter Channel ID and‬‭assign an Enter‬
‭Channel ID to objects. The Enter Effect will only affect the objects with the‬
‭same Enter Channel ID. By default, all blocks will be affected.‬
‭●‬ ‭Enter Only/Exit Only:‬‭The effect will only be displayed‬‭when the objects‬
‭enter or exit the screen respectively.‬

‭151‬

‭Table 7.6: Enter Effects.‬

‭Effect‬

‭Explanation‬
‭ he objects do not scale in‬
T
‭and out, but they still fade‬
‭in and out.‬

‭ bjects enter the screen by‬
O
‭moving down from the top‬
‭and fading in. Objects exit‬
‭the screen by moving up‬
‭and fading out.‬
‭ bjects enter the screen by‬
O
‭moving up from the bottom‬
‭and fading in. Objects exit‬
‭the screen by moving down‬
‭and fading out.‬
‭ bjects enter the screen by‬
O
‭appearing from behind the‬
‭blocks and moving to the‬
‭right. Objects exit the‬
‭screen by moving to the left‬
‭and fading out.‬
‭Objects enter the screen by‬
‭moving in from the right‬
‭and fading in. Objects exit‬
‭the screen by disappearing‬
‭behind the blocks and‬
‭fading out.‬

‭152‬

‭Example‬

‭Objects enter the screen by‬
‭scaling up and fading in.‬
‭Objects exit the screen by‬
‭scaling down and fading‬
‭out.‬

‭ bjects enter the screen by‬
O
‭scaling down and fading in.‬
‭Objects exit the screen by‬
‭scaling up and fading out.‬

‭Objects enter and exit the‬
‭screen in a chaotic‬
‭movement, fading and out‬
‭respectively.‬

‭Objects enter the screen by‬
‭the top half moving down,‬
‭and the bottom half moving‬
‭up. They also appear from‬
‭behind the blocks and‬
‭move to the right and fade‬
‭in. Objects exit the screen‬
‭by splitting in half, with the‬
‭top moving up and the‬
‭bottom moving down while‬
‭moving to the left and‬
‭fading out.‬
‭Objects enter the screen by‬
‭the top half moving down‬
‭and the bottom half moving‬
‭up. They move in from the‬
‭right and fade in. Objects‬
‭exit the screen by splitting‬
‭in half, with the top moving‬
‭153‬

‭up and the bottom moving‬
‭down while disappearing‬
‭behind the blocks and‬
‭fading out.‬
‭Objects enter the screen by‬
‭the top half moving down‬
‭and the bottom half moving‬
‭up while fading in. Objects‬
‭exit the screen by splitting‬
‭in half, with the top moving‬
‭up and the bottom moving‬
‭down while fading out.‬
‭ bjects enter the screen by‬
O
‭the top half moving up and‬
‭the bottom half moving‬
‭down while fading in.‬
‭Objects exit the screen by‬
‭splitting in half, with the top‬
‭moving down and the‬
‭bottom moving up while‬
‭fading out.‬
‭ bjects do not fade in and‬
O
‭out and also do not have an‬
‭Enter Effect.‬

‭154‬

‭Move/Rotate/Scale/Fade/Tint Enter‬
‭Lets you create custom Enter Effects, similar to the default ones above. Due to‬
‭these having many of the same settings, we will be explaining them all first‬
‭and only mention specific ones below. Note that one block is equal to 30 for‬
‭all of these.‬

‭●‬ ‭Length:‬‭Distance from the screen borders where the‬‭effect is applied.‬
‭●‬ ‭Offset:‬‭Offsets the screen borders. Enter a positive‬‭value to offset it to the‬
‭right, and a negative value to offset it to the left.‬
‭●‬ ‭Enter Channel:‬‭Used similarly to Group IDs. The objects‬‭you want to have‬
‭the Enter Effect can be set with "Enter Channel" under "Extra2" in "Edit‬
‭Group".‬
‭●‬ ‭Effect ID:‬‭Specific ID that can be referenced later,‬‭for example in‬‭Stop‬
‭Enter Effect Triggers.‬
‭●‬ ‭Enter Only/Exit Only:‬‭The effect is only applied on‬‭screen entrance or exit‬
‭respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Easing:‬‭Modifies how the objects start and end their‬‭transitions.‬

‭155‬

‭For Move Enter, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭MoveDist:‬‭Distance the objects move.‬
‭●‬ ‭MoveAngle:‬‭Angle at which the objects will move. 0‬‭is up, 90 right, 180‬
‭down, 270 left, and so on.‬
‭●‬ ‭XY Mode:‬‭You can enter X and Y values like in the‬‭normal‬‭Move Trigger‬
‭instead of choosing a direction.‬
‭For Rotate Enter, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭Rotation:‬‭The degrees you want the objects to rotate.‬‭Enter a positive‬
‭value to rotate clockwise, and enter a negative value to rotate‬
‭counter-clockwise.‬
‭For Scale Enter, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭ScaleX/ScaleY:‬‭The size the objects scale in the X-axis‬‭and Y-axis‬
‭respectively.‬
‭For Fade Enter, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭Opacity:‬‭The opacity the objects will fade to when‬‭they are near the screen‬
‭edge.‬

‭156‬

‭For Tint Enter, we have these unique settings:‬
‭●‬ ‭Color Channel:‬‭The color you want to tint the objects‬‭in.‬
‭●‬ ‭%:‬‭The percentage you want to tint the color. For‬‭example, if you want to‬
‭tint a black object white and set "%" to 0.5, the object will turn gray.‬
‭●‬ ‭Main Only and Secondary Only:‬‭Some objects have a‬‭Base Color and‬
‭Detail Color, which is seen in the "Edit Object" menu. These options only‬
‭change the these colors respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭HSV:‬‭Instead of tinting the color of a different Color‬‭Channel, you can‬
‭simply tint the same Color Channel and change the "HSV" values of it.‬

‭Stop Enter‬
‭Stops an Enter Effect. You can stop it by referencing its Enter Channel or its‬
‭Effect ID.‬

‭157‬

‭8. Custom Objects‬
‭As mentioned earlier, you can create your own sets of Custom Objects, which‬
‭can be used across different levels. Custom Objects are in the last tab in the‬
‭"Build" category.‬

‭From left to right, the buttons indicate moving a Custom Object design up‬
‭and down a position, adding a new Custom Object, and deleting an existing‬
‭one. To add a Custom Object, first create the design. For example:‬

‭158‬

‭Now select all of the objects in your design, and click the "+" button to add‬
‭them as a Custom Object. Your design should appear as a new button in the‬
‭Custom Objects tab, as seen in figure 8.3.‬

‭You can now select the Custom Object and place it in the editor whenever‬
‭you wish. Custom Objects can consist of up to 1000 objects, and you can add‬
‭up to 200 unique Custom Objects. Select a Custom Object and click the "–"‬
‭button to delete it, as shown in figure 8.4. Note that this action cannot be‬
‭undone.‬

‭159‬

‭9. Channel System‬
‭Working with‬‭Rotate Gameplay Triggers‬‭can be tricky,‬‭especially when you‬
‭change directions often and want to use many‬‭Triggers‬‭.‬‭See the example in‬
‭figure 9.1. Normally Triggers are read from left to right, but this can lead to‬
‭issues in the example. How should the editor know when these Triggers‬
‭should be activated? This is handled by using the Channel System. Here, we‬
‭cover a short example on how to use Channels well.‬

‭In this example, we want the player to go in a circle across all sides and pulse‬
‭the background in a different color when jumping over a Spike. When‬
‭playtesting in the editor, you will find that the player does not change rotation‬
‭when reaching the top left Rotate Gameplay Trigger. This is because the‬
‭Trigger gets activated first and is immediately overridden by the Trigger in‬
‭the bottom left. To fix this, we have to change the order in which the Triggers‬
‭are read.‬

‭160‬

‭Rotate Gameplay Triggers have a "Change Channel" option, which puts the‬
‭player on a different Channel when that Trigger is activated. By default, the‬
‭player, all Triggers, and all‬‭Gameplay Objects‬‭are‬‭on Channel 0, resulting in‬
‭everything getting activated from left to right.‬
‭In our example, we want to activate the Rotate Gameplay Triggers in the‬
‭following order: bottom right, top right, top left, and bottom left. To achieve‬
‭this, we change the Channel of the player after reaching the bottom right‬
‭Trigger, as seen in figure 9.2.‬

‭After reaching the Trigger, the player is on Channel 1 instead of 0. While on‬
‭the right side of the square, we want to activate the right‬‭Pulse Trigger‬‭and‬
‭the top right Rotate Gameplay Trigger. To achieve this, we have to put them‬
‭on the same Channel as the player.‬
‭To put objects on a different Channel, first select them and click "Edit Group".‬
‭In the bottom right of the menu, you will find a textbox titled "CH". This refers‬
‭to the Channel of the objects. As seen in figure 9.3, you can input "1" in "CH" to‬
‭put them on the same Channel as the player.‬

‭161‬

‭We will now activate the first and second Pulse and Rotate Gameplay Triggers‬
‭in the correct order. When reaching the second Rotate Gameplay Trigger, we‬
‭want to put the player on a different Channel again. If we do not do this, the‬
‭top left Rotate Gameplay Trigger is activated at the same time as the second‬
‭one, resulting in unwanted behavior. Similar to figure 9.2, we now change the‬
‭Channel of the player to 2 by using the "Change Channel" option in the‬
‭Rotate Gameplay Trigger.‬

‭162‬

‭We repeat this for all Triggers. We change the Triggers that we want to‬
‭activate to the Channel the player is currently on, and we change the Channel‬
‭of the player whenever we reach a new Rotate Gameplay Trigger. See figure‬
‭9.5 for the final settings for our example.‬

‭Channels should be used for‬‭Speed Changers‬‭as well,‬‭to ensure that the sync‬
‭does not behave weirdly when having rotated or reversed gameplay. When‬
‭playtesting the music in the editor, you will see that the line now changes‬
‭directions accordingly and at the right position. If you have several Triggers on‬
‭one Channel, they will be read in the direction of the arrow. You can playtest‬
‭the music and see the direction in which the line goes to see the order in‬
‭which the Triggers or Gameplay Objects will be activated.‬

‭163‬

‭10. Keyframe System‬
‭The Keyframe System allows you to create precise animations using‬
‭movement, rotation, and scaling with a single Trigger. This is done with‬
‭several keyframes, which can be freely modified in turn.‬

‭We will be going through all the options by creating an example. Assume we‬
‭want to animate a cube moving in and jumping over Spikes. We will first‬
‭create the cube we plan to animate and assign a Group ID to it, as well as the‬
‭Spikes the cube will interact with, as seen in figure 10.2.‬

‭164‬

‭The cube has Group ID 1 assigned to it. We will now place a‬‭Keyframe Trigger‬
‭to understand how basic movement using keyframes works. Place one of‬
‭these Triggers, click "Copy+Paste" to duplicate it, and move the copied Trigger‬
‭some blocks to the right. The Triggers will draw a green line between them, as‬
‭seen in figure 10.3. The line indicates that they are connected and are part of‬
‭the same animation.‬

‭The Keyframe Triggers by themselves are not enough to create the animation.‬
‭You need to configure a‬‭Keyframe Animation Trigger‬‭as well. Assign a Group‬
‭ID to your first Keyframe Trigger, and input your Group IDs in the Keyframe‬
‭Animation Trigger, as seen in figure 10.4. The Animation Group ID refers to the‬
‭Group ID your first Keyframe Trigger has. The Target ID refers to the objects‬
‭that get animated. The Parent ID is optional and is used to reference the‬
‭center of the target objects for rotation and scaling. By default, all objects will‬
‭use their own center. The second page of the Keyframe Animation Trigger‬
‭modifies several animation options. We will be using some of them later. For‬
‭more information regarding the settings, check its subchapter in the Triggers‬
‭chapter.‬

‭165‬

‭When playtesting, the cube should now move the same distance to the right‬
‭as the distance between the two Keyframe Triggers. We can now add more‬
‭Keyframe Triggers and change their positions, rotations, and sizes, and the‬
‭cube will follow all of them. However, creating precise animations with only‬
‭the Keyframe Triggers is difficult, as we do not have any reference points. To‬
‭change this, we will use the "Preview Art" option in the Keyframe Triggers.‬
‭For the Keyframe Triggers to preview our cube, we have to assign a Parent‬
‭Group ID to the cube. This Parent Group ID works as a reference point for the‬
‭Keyframe Triggers. All movement, rotation, and scaling will use the Parent‬
‭Group ID as the center. Our cube should scale and rotate around its own‬
‭center, so we will add a new object to our cube, as seen in figure 10.5. This‬
‭object also follows the animation. To mark this object as the Group Parent ID,‬
‭we will click the "P" button in the‬‭Edit Group‬‭menu.‬‭Doing so turns the Group‬
‭ID pink, as seen in figure 10.6.‬

‭166‬

‭In the first Keyframe Trigger, we can input the Group ID of our cube now. By‬
‭clicking the Preview Art option, the keyframe will be replaced with our cube‬
‭objects, as seen in figure 10.7. Note that the Preview Art option does not work‬
‭without the objects having a Group Parent ID, as the keyframe Triggers have‬
‭no center to draw from without it. You can enable the Preview Art option in‬
‭the other keyframe Triggers and hide the Group Parent ID object now.‬

‭167‬

‭With our keyframes looking like our art now, we have a lot more control over‬
‭the movements. However, with all the frames showing at full opacity and‬
‭layering between them inconsistently, doing exact animations is difficult. You‬
‭can enable the "Ref Only" option in Keyframe Triggers for lower opacity, as‬
‭seen in figure 10.7. The "Auto Layer" option fixes our layering issues. This‬
‭option draws the most recent keyframe at the highest layer, so you always‬
‭have it completely visible.‬

‭You can now create your animation by setting more keyframes at important‬
‭locations. In our example, this is the beginning of the animation, the position‬
‭where the cube begins to jump, the movement and rotation during the jump,‬
‭and the position the cube lands at. You can modify each keyframe position,‬
‭rotation, and size, as seen in figure 10.8.‬

‭168‬

‭If you look closely, the jump is not smooth at all. It consists of only straight‬
‭lines between frames with no curvature. To fix this, enable the "Curve" option‬
‭for the relevant Keyframe Triggers, which results in a much smoother‬
‭animation, as seen in figure 10.9.‬

‭169‬

‭When playtesting, you will notice that the animation still looks weird. The‬
‭movement speed between the frames is inconsistent, resulting in the jump‬
‭being slower than the sliding. The is is because of the "Time" option, which‬
‭checks for the "Duration" value. Right now, the "Duration" value is 0.5, which‬
‭means the animation from one keyframe to the next one takes 0.5 seconds.‬
‭However, we want the duration to change based on the distance of the‬
‭Triggers. Triggers that are further apart take longer than ones closer to each‬
‭other.‬
‭We can achieve this by enabling the "Dist" option. The "Even" option makes‬
‭the time between keyframes even, disregarding the distance. Note that the‬
‭first Keyframe Trigger should always use the "Time" option, as the other‬
‭keyframes marked as "Ref Only" will not be considered for the other options‬
‭otherwise, resulting in rash movements. The Keyframe Triggers should look‬
‭like this now.‬

‭170‬

‭Depending on how many keyframes you placed, the movement may still look‬
‭too slow. You can change this by modifying the time variable in the Keyframe‬
‭Animation Trigger. On the second page, you will find the "Time Mod" option,‬
‭which speeds up or slows down your animation depending on what value you‬
‭put. A value smaller than 1 will speed the animation up, while a value greater‬
‭than 1 will slow the animation down. Play around with the "Time", "Even",‬
‭"Dist", "Duration", and modifier settings to find a good balance to create‬
‭smooth movements.‬
‭With this, our first animation is complete. Assume that we want to create a‬
‭second cube jumping over the Spikes from the other side using the same‬
‭keyframe animation. We first create our second cube and give it a new Group‬
‭ID. We now want to make a copy of our keyframes. However, using‬
‭"Copy+Paste" does not work, as the keyframes will be connected. We can‬
‭instead use the "Dup Anim" button within the keyframes. By inputting our‬
‭new Group ID, we are now referencing the new cube. Assign a new Group ID‬
‭to the first Keyframe Trigger and place a new Keyframe Animation Trigger‬
‭with all new Group IDs. The result is figure 10.11.‬

‭171‬

‭When playtesting, you will see that the second cube will not jump over the‬
‭Spikes. Instead, it will follow the exact movement of the first cube. By clicking‬
‭the "Reverse Order" button, the animation is done in reverse like we want.‬
‭Movement to the right will go to the left instead.‬
‭If we want to change anything about our cube art, for example adding more‬
‭details or changing the color, we will see that the Keyframe Trigger art is not‬
‭updated accordingly. To fix this, click the "Update Art" button in any Keyframe‬
‭Trigger.‬
‭Due to how we set up the keyframes, our rotations will always be in the‬
‭correct direction. However, you might want to rotate some frames clockwise‬
‭and others counter-clockwise. You can achieve this by clicking "CW" for‬
‭clockwise or "CCW" for counter-clockwise. By default, rotations happen in the‬
‭closer direction. The "x360" option adds an entire rotation before reaching the‬
‭keyframe.‬
‭We want to finalize our animation by adding a screen pulse when the cubes‬
‭land. To do this, we can use the "Spawn ID" feature in the Keyframe Triggers.‬
‭Configure a‬‭Pulse Trigger‬‭like normal and assign it‬‭a Group ID. Input this‬
‭Group ID into a Keyframe Trigger. The pulse will spawn when the animation‬
‭reaches that keyframe. Using the "SpawnDelay" option can delay the Trigger‬
‭by a set duration. Alternatively, you can use the "Prox" option to spawn the‬
‭pulse when the cube is close to the keyframe.‬

‭172‬

‭And with that, our animation is finished. Figure 10.12 shows the final setup.‬
‭You can move the Keyframe Triggers out of the screen now without the‬
‭animation changing. For an easy way to select all keyframes in an animation,‬
‭click one of them and click the "Select All" button.‬

‭173‬

‭11. Auto-Build System‬
‭The Auto-Build System allows you to create designs from a premade‬
‭template. This makes it particularly useful to speed up block design creation.‬
‭However, the system can also be used across levels, making it work well for 3D‬
‭lines, layouts, and more too. To get started, place one of the last 3 objects in‬
‭the Blocks tab (first tab under "Build") in the editor. These are called‬
‭Smart-Blocks. Afterwards, click "Edit Special" to open the following menu:‬

‭We will be going through all the settings by creating several examples. First,‬
‭we will use premade templates to achieve some basic designs. Then, we will‬
‭set up our own templates for more complex designs and use the system to‬
‭generate random Spike designs.‬
‭We start by creating a new template. To do this, go to the "Browser" tab. It‬
‭should look like figure 11.2 when you first open it. Click the "New" button and‬
‭enter a name to create a new template.‬

‭174‬

‭You will see information about our template below the name. "Defined" refers‬
‭to how many different templates we have created. "Variations" refers to how‬
‭many variations our designs have. The "46" refers to the default template‬
‭blocks, which we will use in our first example to create a block design.‬

‭175‬

‭Click the "Browse" button to see all premade Smart-Block templates, as seen‬
‭in figure 11.4. By clicking on a template, you can add it to the editor. The‬
‭amount of templates you add does not matter, but by creating all 46‬
‭premade ones, you ensure your template is functional for simple structures.‬
‭For our example, we will design all templates.‬

‭176‬

‭We can now start creating our design on the template. Blocks with dashed‬
‭outlines function as references. You fill out the solid outline blocks as if the‬
‭reference blocks were in your design. See the figure below.‬

‭You can build your design across different layers. Additionally, you can add‬
‭details up to 1 block space outside of the Smart-Block. After finishing every‬
‭design, we have the result in figure 11.7.‬

‭177‬

‭Now that we have finished our design, we want to update our template to‬
‭include our decoration. Select everything you have created, as well as the‬
‭Smart-Blocks. Go into the "Browser" tab again and ensure you use your‬
‭template. After doing so, click the blue "Template" button on the initial page.‬

‭If you return to the screen from which we copied the premade templates, our‬
‭new designs can now be seen, as shown below.‬

‭178‬

‭With that, we have created our first template. We now want to test it by‬
‭generating the design for custom structures. To do so, build structures using‬
‭the Smart-Blocks, as seen in figure 11.10. After doing so, select all the‬
‭Smart-Blocks, open the system's menu from "Edit Special", and click the‬
‭"Create" button. This gives the result in figure 11.11.‬

‭We can automatically fill any Smart-Block structures with our template‬
‭design. It can also be used across levels if we wish to reuse it at any point.‬

‭179‬

‭Even though the premade templates worked well for our structures, we are‬
‭still limited in what we can create. Because of this, we now want to add to our‬
‭template and expand it with new structures and slopes. Click the "Create All"‬
‭button to paste all of your templates so far. Click "Paste Template" to see the‬
‭first structure we want to expand. As you can see, the template does not‬
‭create the designs correctly, as seen in figure 11.12. We now recreate our‬
‭design in the new structures to be correct, as seen in figure 11.13.‬

‭180‬

‭We created these structures like new templates. We now also want to add‬
‭slopes to our templates. To do this, we can make our own templates to‬
‭decorate. To create your own templates, use the Smart-Blocks to create the‬
‭structures you need. With more variations, your result gets more precise.‬

‭You would usually have to create versions for all rotations of the slopes.‬
‭However, by enabling "Allow Rotation", "Allow Flip X", and "Allow Flip Y" in the‬
‭main menu, seen below, one version is enough.‬

‭181‬

‭We can now fill the slopes with our design. Like with the premade templates,‬
‭we can place details up to 1 block space outside the Smart-Blocks.‬

‭Let us create a new template now with all the new templates added. Like‬
‭before, go to the "Browser" tab and create a new template. Use it, select all‬
‭designs along with their Smart-Blocks, and click "Template". The Auto-Build‬
‭System will deconstruct our slopes into singular blocks, as shown in figure‬
‭10.17. With that, we have finished our second template.‬

‭182‬

‭Templates can have several variations, indicated by a small number on the‬
‭templates, as seen in figure 11.18. Variations can have different odds of being‬
‭used, which can create more details. In our third and final example, we want‬
‭to create a template that generates unique configurations of Spikes on the‬
‭ground.‬

‭We first decide what Spike variations we want to use. The best way to achieve‬
‭this is to create all the variations we want in the editor as follows:‬

‭183‬

‭As you can see, the Spikes always start and end with the same Spikes. We also‬
‭want our Spikes to be variable in length and only have the corner Spikes at‬
‭the start and end. To achieve this, we will be using reference blocks.‬
‭Reference blocks indicate that a variation gets used if another Smart-Block is‬
‭at the location of the reference block. We can use this to set up our templates,‬
‭as shown in figure 11.21. The left corner Spike requires another Spike to the‬
‭right of it, while the right corner Spike requires another Spike to the left of it.‬
‭(You mark a Smart-Block as a reference by clicking the "Reference Only"‬
‭option, as shown in figure 11.20.)‬

‭184‬

‭For our other Spikes, we require another Spike to the left and the right of‬
‭each. We can use the reference blocks to indicate this by placing one to the‬
‭left and one to the right of our Smart-Block. Using the same templates six‬
‭times for all our Spike variations leaves us with the result shown in figure 11.22.‬

‭We now create a new template, and update it with the templates we created.‬
‭The template browser should show our corner Spikes and one of the other six‬
‭Spikes with a small "6" on it.‬

‭185‬

‭You can click on the Spike template to view all variations, as seen in figure‬
‭11.24. Right now, none of the variations have the odds to appear. To change‬
‭this, click all variations and hit the "Add" button.‬

‭186‬

‭Doing so has made the odds of each appear below the respective variation.‬
‭Currently, every variation has a one in six chance. For our example, we want‬
‭the fifth variation to be rarer than the others and the third to be more likely.‬
‭To do this, we first deselect variation five and click "Add" to increase their‬
‭odds. After that, we deselect all besides variation three and click "Add". This‬
‭process changes the odds of the selected variations appropriately.‬
‭Now, all the odds should have changed accordingly. We can now place‬
‭Smart-Blocks and click "Create" to generate unique variations of ground‬
‭Spikes, with each Spike having different odds, the length being variable, and‬
‭the corner Spikes always at the correct position. Figure 11.26 shows some‬
‭examples.‬

‭187‬

‭12. Pause Menu‬
‭There are various options and buttons that can customize your experience in‬
‭the editor. These are mostly found in the Pause Menu of the editor, which is‬
‭found by clicking the button in the top right. It looks like this:‬

‭Here, there are a lot of options (seen as checkboxes) and buttons that may or‬
‭may not be self-explanatory. In this chapter, a small description of each is‬
‭provided in case you need help. For clarity, the options are shown inside a‬
‭blue box, while the buttons are shown inside the red boxes.‬

‭Options‬
‭These options, shown in blue in figure 11.1, customize the editor view in‬
‭specific ways. In other words, they have no actual effect on the level itself, but‬
‭rather the experience of making it. Here is a short description of each one.‬

‭188‬

‭●‬ ‭DebugDraw:‬‭Draws hitboxes for objects that interact with the player. The‬
‭hitboxes of blocks are drawn in white, while the hitboxes of obstacles, such‬
‭as saws and Spikes, are drawn in red. In other words, collision with a red‬
‭line leads to death.‬
‭●‬ ‭Hide Invisible:‬‭Hides objects that are set to be invisible‬‭in the editor. (This‬
‭only affects objects that are set to "Hide" inside‬‭Extras‬‭of‬‭Edit Group‬‭.)‬
‭●‬ ‭Preview Mode:‬‭Shows the level close to how it looks‬‭in-game when played.‬
‭This means that you can see how the colors of objects, the Background,‬
‭Ground, and so on look together while in the editor.‬
‭●‬ ‭Preview Animations:‬‭Shows‬‭Animated Objects‬‭how they‬‭look in-game.‬
‭●‬ ‭Preview Particles:‬‭Shows particles how they look in-game.‬
‭●‬ ‭Preview Shaders:‬‭Shows shader effects how they look‬‭in-game.‬
‭●‬ ‭Show Ground:‬‭Shows the Ground. Disabling this is useful‬‭if you want to‬
‭place objects underneath it.‬
‭●‬ ‭Show Object‬‭Info:‬‭Shows some information about selected‬‭objects. This is‬
‭seen as text in the top left of the editor. The different abbreviations are as‬
‭follows: "C" is Color Channel, "C1" is Base Color, "C2" is Detail Color, "G" is‬
‭grid position, and "EL" is editor layer.‬
‭●‬ ‭Show Grid:‬‭Shows the editor grid.‬
‭●‬ ‭Select Filter:‬‭Lets you use the Group ID and Color‬‭Channel filters in the‬
‭"Delete" tab to select objects (while in the "Edit" tab).‬
‭●‬ ‭Ignore Damage:‬‭Lets you playtest without dying, regardless‬‭of the‬
‭obstacles you touch.‬

‭189‬

‭Buttons‬
‭The buttons seen in red in figure 12.1 perform various actions that are helpful‬
‭when creating. First are the two buttons in the center at the bottom, which‬
‭toggle‬‭music guidelines‬‭and open this guide, respectively.‬

‭●‬ ‭ReGroup:‬‭If you have selected objects with various‬‭Group IDs, you can use‬
‭this to change all the corresponding Group IDs to use the lowest ones not‬
‭yet used.‬
‭●‬ ‭Create Loop:‬‭After selecting a Trigger setup, you‬‭can click this to create a‬
‭Spawn Loop for you.‬
‭●‬ ‭Keys:‬‭Shows various key bindings that are useful while‬‭in the editor.‬
‭●‬ ‭AlignX/AlignY:‬‭If you have various objects selected,‬‭they are all aligned‬
‭evenly on the X-axis or Y-axis respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Build Helper:‬‭If you select various objects in your‬‭level, including Triggers,‬
‭and click this, any already used Group IDs and their references inside‬
‭Triggers will be distributed to new unused Group IDs. Useful for‬
‭collaborations where some people may have used overlapping Group IDs.‬
‭●‬ ‭Copy+Color:‬‭Copies the selected objects including‬‭all of their Color‬
‭Channels' starting settings. Useful for copying and pasting across levels. By‬
‭default, copying and pasting does not include the Color Channel info.‬
‭●‬ ‭Select All:‬‭Selects every object in the level.‬
‭●‬ ‭Paste+Color:‬‭Pastes the objects and Color Channel‬‭info after using‬
‭"Copy+Color".‬
‭●‬ ‭Select All Left/Right:‬‭Selects all objects to the‬‭left or right, respectively, of‬
‭where you are in the editor.‬
‭●‬ ‭Create Extras:‬‭This adds outline objects for certain‬‭types of blocks, such as‬
‭the ones that look like rocks.‬
‭●‬ ‭Unlock Layers:‬‭Unlocks all layers that are locked‬‭at once.‬

‭190‬

‭●‬ ‭New GroupX/Y:‬‭Assigns new Group IDs to the selected objects, going from‬
‭left to right or bottom to top respectively.‬
‭●‬ ‭Reset Unused:‬‭Resets all Color Channels that are not‬‭used by any objects.‬
‭●‬ ‭Uncheck Portals:‬‭Unchecks all checked Portals. Checked‬‭Portals show the‬
‭roof and ground boundaries.‬

‭Not mentioned in this list is the gear in the top right. This is used to customize‬
‭the editor in various ways. You can, for example, increase the amount of rows‬
‭or buttons per row for "Build" and "Edit". This is helpful when working with‬
‭tabs that have many buttons. Additionally, there are many other options that‬
‭toggle different things in the editor. If you are unsure what an option does,‬
‭click the information box (seen as an "i" button).‬

‭191‬

‭13. Sharing Your Level‬
‭Verifying‬
‭Once you are finished with your level, you have to verify it before you can‬
‭publish it. This means that you have to beat your level by clicking "Save and‬
‭Play" in the‬‭Pause Menu‬‭. You can also click the play‬‭button from the Level‬
‭Menu (figure 13.1). It must be an attempt from the start of the level, so a‬‭Start‬
‭Position‬‭cannot be used. If your level has any‬‭User‬‭Coins‬‭, these must also be‬
‭collected. Note that you can collect the User Coins on different attempts, as‬
‭long as all lead to you beating the level. For example, if your level has 2 User‬
‭Coins, you can collect the first in one attempt, and then the second in another‬
‭attempt.‬

‭Level Menu‬
‭After successfully verifying your level (and its potential User Coins), head out‬
‭of the level and go to the Level Menu, seen in figure 13.1. As you can see, it says‬
‭that the status is "Verified" on the bottom right. This means that you are ready‬
‭to upload your level.‬

‭192‬

‭The other text gives various other details about the level. To the left is the‬
‭level's length if the Game Type is Classic: 0-10 seconds is "Tiny", 10-30 seconds‬
‭is "Short", 30-60 seconds is "Medium", 60-120 seconds is "Long", and 120+‬
‭seconds is "XL" (for Extra Long). If the level is Platformer, this will simply say‬
‭"Plat." since these levels' length cannot be determined easily. In the middle is‬
‭the starting song, and below that is the version and ID (once shared).‬
‭On the right are buttons for various actions. First is deleting the local editor‬
‭level. This action cannot be undone, so only use this if you are certain. Below‬
‭that is a button that opens this guide. Third is a button to make another‬
‭editor copy of the level, and finally is a button to move the level to the top of‬
‭your editor levels (indicated by the arrow). Clicking this will put the level at the‬
‭top in the list seen by clicking the back arrow in the top left. To organize this‬
‭list better, you can put your level into a specific folder, indicated by the folder‬
‭with a "0" on the left side of the menu. The info button in the bottom left‬
‭shows various statistics about your level.‬
‭Before sharing your level, putting in a title and description at the top is most‬
‭important. The title of a level cannot be updated once it is shared. You would‬
‭have to reupload a new copy with a new name. However, the description can‬
‭easily be changed. Note that writing one is optional.‬

‭Uploading‬
‭Once you have set a title you are satisfied with, click the third big button. This‬
‭opens the level sharing interface, which is shown below. Here, the name and‬
‭description is shown at the top. Below that, you can select how many Stars or‬
‭Moons you want to request. To decide this accurately, we recommend playing‬
‭levels on the Featured tab and getting an idea of the difficulty of rated levels.‬
‭Note that you can skip choosing one without any problems later.‬
‭193‬

‭In the top right, indicated by the gear, are some extra settings. Clicking this‬
‭opens the menu seen in figure 13.3. Here, you can choose whether you want‬
‭to allow users to copy your level into their editor or not. You can also check‬
‭"Requires Password" to require users to input a password from 4 to 6‬
‭numbers long to copy it.‬
‭There is also an option for "Unlisted", which means that your level does not‬
‭show on any level lists or general search results. This means that it will not‬
‭show on your profile either. For users to find it, they must search the exact ID.‬
‭On top of being unlisted, you can also enable "Friends Only", which means a‬
‭user must be your friend and search the exact ID to find it. You can, for‬
‭example, enable these options alongside "Allow Copy" to share a level to a‬
‭friend you want to collaborate with.‬

‭194‬

‭Once you are happy with all these settings, go ahead and click "Share Level".‬
‭This will upload your level to the servers if there are no issues. On the Level‬
‭Menu, the ID field will now be updated with your level's ID. This can be shared‬
‭with others to help them find your level. To see how your level looks on the‬
‭servers, head back to your list of editor levels seen below.‬

‭195‬

‭Here, click the button in the bottom left (marked in red) to see your published‬
‭levels. Your recently published level shows at the top. Clicking it takes you to‬
‭its level page seen below. Here you can play it, see comments and‬
‭leaderboards, and more.‬

‭The two buttons on the left, marked in pink, may be useful in some cases.‬
‭First is a button that removes your level from the server entirely. The button in‬
‭the top right of this page only deletes it from your saved levels, but it can still‬
‭be found by others. Secondly is another copy button, which is always enabled‬
‭for the creator of a level (regardless of the copying options set earlier). This is‬
‭useful if you no longer have a local editor copy of your level.‬

‭196‬

‭Updating Levels‬
‭The easiest way to update an uploaded level is to make edits on the local‬
‭editor copy. This will change its status from "Uploaded" to "Unverified", and‬
‭the version number also says 2 instead of 1. Once done with your edits, go‬
‭through the process of verifying again, and then share it as you did before.‬
‭This will automatically update the online level.‬
‭If you no longer have a local editor copy of the level, copy the online level from‬
‭the button seen in figure 13.5. This makes a copy with an additional number at‬
‭the end of the name. If you want to use this copy to update the level, you have‬
‭to edit the title of this copy to be the exact same as the online level. After that,‬
‭do your edits and share it as before. This also links the update to the shared‬
‭level.‬

‭Updating Descriptions‬
‭As for updating only the description and not the level content, it is also best to‬
‭have the exact copy that was uploaded. Once uploaded, the copy will show a‬
‭new refresh button on the left, marked in red below. This is solely used to‬
‭update the description. Simply type in your new description and click it.‬

‭197‬

‭If you do not have the exact copy, you have to do the same as when you want‬
‭to update a level by copying the published level. Unfortunately, the refresh‬
‭description button will not show up in this case. You will have to verify the‬
‭level again, type in your new description, and go through the sharing process.‬
‭Make sure the level name is the exact same as the online level.‬

‭Rating‬
‭After you have published a level publicly, the displayed Difficulty of the level‬
‭may update. This is based on community ratings through the bottom right‬
‭button in figure 13.5. Using this, players can get an idea of the Difficulty of your‬
‭level. However, this does not mean the level gives any rewards when it is‬
‭beaten.‬
‭Your level gives rewards if RobTop, the developer of the game, plays it and‬
‭gives it a certain amount of Stars or Moons. The amount ranges from 1 to 10.‬
‭Stars are rewarded for Classic levels, while Moons are rewarded for Platformer‬
‭levels. These show below the Difficulty face on the level page or level lists.‬
‭Once rated, the Difficulty is locked and community votes are no longer‬
‭available. These are the Star and Moon values for each Difficulty:‬
‭●‬ ‭Auto:‬‭1 Star or Moon‬
‭●‬ ‭Easy:‬‭2 Stars or Moons‬
‭●‬ ‭Normal:‬‭3 Stars or Moons‬
‭●‬ ‭Hard:‬‭4 to 5 Stars or Moons‬
‭●‬ ‭Harder:‬‭6 to 7 Stars or Moons‬
‭●‬ ‭Insane:‬‭8 to 9 Stars or Moons‬
‭●‬ ‭Demon:‬‭10 Stars or Moons‬

‭198‬

‭Within Demon levels, there is an additional separation into Easy, Medium,‬
‭Hard, Insane, and Extreme Demons in order of increasing difficulty. This is‬
‭solely based on community votes on levels already rated Demon by RobTop.‬
‭Getting a higher Demon rating does not change the reward, only the‬
‭Difficulty Face shown on the level.‬
‭If a player beats a Rated level, the amount of Stars or Moons are added to‬
‭their profile statistics. If the level has User Coins, a rating may also involve‬
‭verifying these so that they show on a user's profile when collected. This is the‬
‭case if they are done properly as explained‬‭here‬‭.‬
‭There are no specific guidelines to ensure your level gets a rating. It is simply‬
‭about whether RobTop likes it or not. However, some general tips are:‬
‭●‬ ‭At least 30 seconds in length‬
‭●‬ ‭Overall clear gameplay‬
‭●‬ ‭Decent visuals‬
‭●‬ ‭Optimized performance‬

‭Additionally, how much RobTop likes it results in various types of ratings. This‬
‭is indicated by an additional effect around the Difficulty Face, which is seen‬
‭below. From left to right, we have Rated, Featured, Epic, Legendary, and‬
‭Mythic. Each gives 1 more Creator Point than the last, which is a statistic‬
‭shown on profiles and the Creators Leaderboard to highlight creators.‬

‭199‬

‭One way to increase the chances of your level being rated is by requesting it‬
‭to a Moderator. Moderators are players that can suggest high-quality levels to‬
‭RobTop for a rating. These are indicated by a special "M" badge on their‬
‭in-game profile.‬
‭For more information about the Rating System:‬
‭https://www.boomlings.com/GDRating‬
‭For more information about the Leaderboards:‬
‭https://www.boomlings.com/GDLeaderboards‬

‭14. Afterword‬
‭Suggestions‬
‭This document took a long time to write for us (Viprin and AutoNick). We‬
‭hope that there is a lot of useful information here to help you create, whether‬
‭you are new or experienced. However, it is by no means perfect. If you have‬
‭suggestions for additions or changes, feel free to contact us through social‬
‭media:‬
‭●‬ ‭Viprin:‬‭Discord‬‭,‬‭Twitter‬‭, and‬‭YouTube‬‭.‬
‭●‬ ‭AutoNick:‬‭Discord‬‭,‬‭Twitter‬‭, and‬‭YouTube‬‭.‬

‭Special Thanks‬
‭First, special thanks to‬‭Erdyuri‬‭and‬‭Spu7Nix‬‭for creating the cover. Of course,‬
‭we also have to give a special thanks to‬‭RobTop‬‭for‬‭creating this amazing‬
‭editor in the first place. There are extremely few games that can compete in‬
‭terms of complexity and possibilities. He also provided explanations and‬
‭support for many parts of this document. Finally, special thanks to you for‬
‭reading this document. Good luck creating in Geometry Dash!‬
‭200‬


